<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Black Beetles in Amber</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="black-beetles-in-amber" epub:type="division">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Black Beetles in Amber</h2>
			<article id="the-key-note" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Avalon</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I dreamed I was dreaming one morn as I lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In a garden with flowers teeming⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On an island I lay, in a mystical bay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the dream that I dreamed I was dreaming.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The ghost of a scent⁠—had it followed me there</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From the place where I truly was resting?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It filled like an anthem the aisles of the air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The presence of roses attesting.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet I thought in the dream that I dreamed I dreamed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That the place was all barren of roses⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That it only seemed; and the place, I deemed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was the Isle of Bedeviled Noses.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Full many a seaman had testified</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How all who sailed near were enchanted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And landed to search (and in searching died)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For the roses the Sirens had planted.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For the Sirens were dead, and the billows boomed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the stead of their singing forever;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the roses bloomed on the graves of the doomed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though man had discovered them never.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I thought in my dream ’twas an idle tale,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A delusion that mariners cherished⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the fragrance loading the conscious gale</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was the ghost of a garden long perished.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I said, “I will fly from this island of woes,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And acting on that decision,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By that odor of rose I was led by the nose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For ’twas truly, ah! truly, Elysian.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I ran, in my madness, to seek out the source</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the redolent river⁠—directed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By some supernatural, sinister force</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To a forest, dark, haunted, infected.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And still as I threaded (’twas all in the dream</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That I dreamed I was dreaming) each turning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There were many a scream and a sudden gleam</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of eyes all uncannily burning!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The leaves were all wet with a horrible dew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That mirrored the red moon’s crescent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all shapes were fringed with a ghostly blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dim, wavering, phosphorescent.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But the fragrance divine, coming strong and free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Led me on in my resolute seeking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till⁠—ah, joy!⁠—I could see, on the limbs of a tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Mine enemies hanging and reeking!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="cain" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Cain</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Lord, shed thy light upon his desert path,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And gild his branded brow, that no man spill</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His forfeit life to balk Thy holy will</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That spares him for the ripening of wrath.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Already, lo! the red sign is descried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To trembling jurors visibly revealed:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The prison doors obediently yield,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The baffled hangman flings the cord aside.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Powell, the brother’s blood that marks your trail⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hark, how it cries against you from the ground,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like the far baying of the tireless hound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faith! to your ear it is no nightingale.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What signifies the date upon a stone?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To-morrow you shall die if not to-day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What matter when the Avenger choose to slay?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or soon or late the Devil gets his own.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thenceforth through all eternity you’ll hold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No one advantage of the later death.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though you had granted Ralph another breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would <em>he</em> to-day less silent lie and cold?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Earth cares not, curst assassin, when you die;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You never will be readier than now.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wear, in God’s name, that mark upon your brow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And keep the life you purchased with a lie!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="one-judge" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">One Judge</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Wallace, created on a noble plan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To show us that a Judge can be a Man;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through moral mire exhaling mortal stench</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God-guided sweet and foot-clean to the Bench;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In salutation here and sign I lift</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A hand as free as yours from lawless thrift,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A heart⁠—ah, would I truly could proclaim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My bosom lighted with so pure a flame!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alas, not love of justice moves my pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To praise, or to condemn, my fellow men.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Good will and ill its busy point incite:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I do but gratify them when I write.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In palliation, though, I’d humbly state,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I love the righteous and the wicked hate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, sir, although we differ we agree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our work alike from persecution free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Heaven, approving you, consents to me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Take, therefore, from this not all useless hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The crown of honor⁠—not in all the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One honest man dissenting from the choice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor in approval one Fred Crocker’s voice!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-obituarian" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Obituarian</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A newspaper Death-poet sat at his desk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wrapped in appropriate gloom;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His posture was pensive and picturesque,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like a raven charming a tomb.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Enter a party a-drinking the cup</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of sorrow⁠—and likewise of woe:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Some harrowing poetry, Mister, whack up,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All wrote in the key of O.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“For the angels have called my old woman hence</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From the strife⁠—where she fit mighty free.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s a nickel a line? Cond⁠⸺⁠n the expense!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For wealth is now little to me.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Bard of Mortality looked him through</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the piercingest sort of a way:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“It is much to me though it’s little to you⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I’ve <em>taken</em> a wife to-day.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So he twisted the tail of his mental cow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And made her give down her flow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The grief of that bard was long-winded, somehow⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">There was reams and reamses of woe.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The widower man which had buried his wife</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Grew lily-like round each gill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For she turned in her grave and came back to life!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Then he cruel ignored the bill.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then Sorrow she opened her gates a-wide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As likewise did also Woe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the death-poet’s song, as is heard inside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is sang in the key of O.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-commuted-sentence" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Commuted Sentence</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Boruck and Waterman upon their grills</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In Hades lay, with many a sigh and groan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hotly disputing, for each swore his own</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were clearly keener than the other’s ills.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And, truly, each had much to boast of⁠—bone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sinew, muscle, tallow, nerve and skin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blood in the vein and marrow in the shin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Teeth, eyes and other organs (for the soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has all of these and even a wagging chin)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All Blazed and coruscated like a coal!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Lower Sacramento, you remember,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has trying weather, even in mid-December.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now this occurred in the far future. All</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Mankind had been a million ages dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And each to her reward above had sped,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each to his punishment below⁠—I call</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That quite a just arrangement. As I said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Boruck and Waterman in warmest pain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crackled and sizzed with all their might and main.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For, when on earth, they’d freed a scurvy host</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of crooks from the State prison, who again</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had robbed and ravaged the Pacific Coast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And (such the felon’s predatory nature)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even got themselves into the Legislature.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So Waterman and Boruck lay and roared</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In Hades. It is true all other males</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Felt the like flames and uttered equal wails,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But did not suffer <em>them</em>; whereas <em>they</em> bored</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Each one the other. But indeed my tale’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not getting on at all. They lay and browned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till Boruck (who long since his teeth had ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Away and spoke Gum Arabic and made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stump speeches even in praying) looked around</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And said to Bob’s incinerated shade:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Your Excellency, this is mighty hard on</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The inventors of the unpardonable pardon.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The other soul⁠—his right hand all aflame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For ’twas with that he’d chiefly sinned, although</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His tongue, too, like a wick was working woe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the reserve of tallow in his frame⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Said, with a sputtering, uncertain flow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with a gesture like a shaken torch:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Yes, but I’m sure we’ll not much longer scorch.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Although this climate is not good for Hope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose joyous wing ’twould singe, I think the porch</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Hell we’ll quit with a pacific slope.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Last century I signified repentance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And asked for commutation of our sentence.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Even as he spoke, the form of Satan loomed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In sight, all crimson with reflections’s fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like some tall tower or cathedral spire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Touched by the dawn while all the earth is gloomed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In mists and shadows of the night time. “Sire,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said Waterman, his agitable wick</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still sputtering, “what calls you back so quick?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It scarcely was a century ago</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You left us.” “I have come to bring,” said Nick,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“<abbr>St.</abbr> Peter’s answer (he is never slow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In correspondence) to your application</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For pardon⁠—pardon me!⁠—for commutation.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“He says that he’s instructed to reply</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(And he has so instructed me) that sin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like yours⁠—and this poor gentleman’s who’s in</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For bad advice to you⁠—comes rather high;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But since, apparently, you both begin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To feel some pious promptings to the right,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fain would turn your faces to the light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Eternity seems all too long a term.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So ’tis commuted to one-half. I’m quite</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Prepared, when that expires, to free the worm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And quench the fire.” And, civilly retreating,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He left them holding their protracted meeting.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-lifted-finger" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">A Lifted Finger</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>The <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Chronicle</i> did a great public service in whipping ⸻ and his fellow-rascals out of office.</p>
						<cite><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">M. H.</abbr> de Young’s Newspaper</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>What! <em>you</em> whip rascals?⁠—<em>you</em>, whose gutter blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bears, in its dark, dishonorable flood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enough of prison-birds’ prolific germs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To serve a whole eternity of terms?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>You</em>, for whose back the rods and cudgels strove</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere yet the ax had hewn them from the grove?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>You</em>, the De Young whose splendor bright and brave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is phosphorescence from another’s grave⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till now unknown, by any chance or luck,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even to the hearts at which you feebly struck?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>You</em> whip a rascal out of office?⁠—<em>you</em></span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose leadless weapon once ignobly blew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its smoke in six directions to assert</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your lack of appetite for others’ dirt?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Practice makes perfect: when for fame you thirst,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then whip a rascal. Whip a cripple first.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or, if for action you’re less free than bold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Your palms both brimming with dishonest gold)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Entrust the castigation that you’ve planned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As once before, to woman’s idle hand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So in your spirit shall two pleasures join</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To slake the sacred thirst for blood and coin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blood? Souls have blood, even as the body hath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, spilled, ’twill fertilize the field of wrath.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo! in a purple gorge of yonder hills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where o’er a grave a bird its day-song stills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A woman’s blood, through roses ever red,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mutely appeals for vengeance on your head.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slandered to death to serve a sordid end,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She called you murderer and called me friend.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now, mark you, libeler, this course if you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dare to maintain, or rather to renew;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If one short year’s immunity has made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You blink again the perils of your trade⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ghastly sequence of the maddened “knave,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hot encounter and the colder grave;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If the grim, dismal lesson you ignore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While yet the stains are fresh upon your floor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And calmly march upon the fatal brink</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With eyes averted to your trail of ink,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Counting unkind the services of those</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who pull, to hold you back, your stupid nose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The day for you to die is not so far,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or, at the least, to live the thing you are!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Pregnant with possibilities of crime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And full of felons for all coming time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your blood’s too precious to be lightly spilt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In testimony to a venial guilt.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Live to get whelpage and preserve a name</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No praise can sweeten and no lie unshame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Live to fulfill the vision that I see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down the dim vistas of the time to be:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dream of clattering beaks and burning eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of hungry ravens glooming all the skies;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dream of gleaming teeth and fœtid breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of jackals wrangling at the feast of death;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dream of broken necks and swollen tongues⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The whole world’s gibbets loaded with De Youngs!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="two-delegates" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Two Delegates</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In that fair city by the inland sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where Blaine unhived his Presidential bee</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Frank Pixley’s meeting with George Gorham sing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Celestial muse, and what events did spring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the encounter of those mighty sons</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of thunder, and of slaughter, and of guns.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Great Gorham first, his yearning tooth to sate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And give him stomach for the day’s debate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Entering a restaurant, with eager mien</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Demands an ounce of bacon and a bean.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The trembling waiter, by the statesman’s eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Smitten with terror, hastens to comply;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor chairs nor tables can his speed retard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For famine’s fixed and horrible regard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He takes for menace. As he shaking flew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo! the portentous Pixley heaved in view!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before him yawned invisible the cell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unheard, behind, the warden’s footsteps fell.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thrice in convention rising to his feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He thrice had been thrust back into his seat;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thrice had protested, been reminded thrice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The nation had no need of his advice.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Balked of his will to set the people right,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His soul was gloomy though his hat was white.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So fierce his mien, with provident accord</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The waiters swarmed him, thinking him a lord.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He spurned them, roaring grandly to their chief:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Give me (Fred Crocker pays) a leg of beef!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His wandering eye’s deluminating flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fell upon Gorham and the crisis came!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Pixley scowled and darkness filled the room</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till Gorham’s flashing orbs dispelled the gloom.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The patrons of the place, by fear dismayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sprang to the street and left their scores unpaid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, when Jove thunders and his lightnings gleam</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To sour the milk and curdle, too, the cream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And storm-clouds gather, o’er the shadowed hill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ass forsakes his hay, the pig his swill.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hotly the heroes now fell to⁠—their breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came short and hard, as in the throes of death.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They clenched their hands, their weapons brandished high,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cut, stabbed, and hewed, nor uttered any cry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But gnashed their teeth and struggled on! In brief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One ate his bacon, t’other one his beef.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="matter-for-gratitude" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Matter for Gratitude</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>Especially should we be thankful for having escaped the ravages of the yellow scourge by which our neighbors have been so sorely afflicted.</p>
						<cite>Governor Stoneman’s Thanksgiving Proclamation</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Be pleased, O Lord, to take a people’s thanks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Thine avenging sword has spared our ranks⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That thou hast parted from our lips the cup</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And forced our neighbors’ lips to drink it up.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Father of Mercies, with a heart contrite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We thank Thee that Thou goest south to smite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sparest San Francisco’s loins, to crack</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy lash on Hermosillo’s bleeding back⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That o’er our homes Thine awful angel spread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His wings in vain, and Guaymas weeps instead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We praise Thee, God, that Yellow Fever here</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His horrid banner has not dared to rear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Consumption’s jurisdiction to contest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her dagger deep in every second breast!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Catarrh and Asthma and Congestive Chill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Attest Thy bounty and perform Thy will.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These native messengers obey Thy call⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They summon singly, but they summon all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not, as in Mexico’s impested clime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can Yellow Jack commit recurring crime.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We thank Thee that Thou killest all the time.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thy tender mercies, Father, never end:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon all heads Thy blessings still descend,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though their forms vary. Here the sown seeds yield</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Abundant grain that whitens all the field⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There the smit corn stands barren on the plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thrift reaps the straw and Famine gleans in vain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here the fat priest to the contented king</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Points to the harvest and the people sing⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There mothers eat their offspring. Well, at least</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou hast provided offspring for the feast.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An earthquake here rolls harmless through the land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Thou art good because the chimneys stand⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There templed cities sink into the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And damp survivors, shrieking as they flee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Skip to the hills and hold a celebration</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In honor of Thy wise discrimination.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O God, forgive them all, from Stoneman down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy smile who construe and expound Thy frown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fall with saintly grace upon their knees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To render thanks when Thou dost only sneeze.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="three-kinds-of-a-rogue" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Three Kinds of a Rogue</h3>
				<section id="three-kinds-of-a-rogue-1" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Sharon, ambitious of immortal shame,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fame’s dead-wall daubed with his illustrious name⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Served in the Senate, for our sins, his time,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Each word a folly and each vote a crime;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Law for our governance well skilled to make</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By knowledge gained in study how to break;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet still by the presiding eye ignored,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which only sought him when too loud he snored.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Auspicious thunder!⁠—when he woke to vote</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He stilled his own, to cut his country’s, throat;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That rite performed, fell off again to sleep,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>While statesmen ages dead awoke to weep!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For sedentary service all unfit,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By lying long disqualified to sit,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wasting below as he decayed aloft,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His seat grown harder as his brain grew soft,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He left the hall he could not bring away,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And grateful millions blessed the happy day!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whate’er contention in that hall is heard,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His sovereign State has still the final word:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For disputatious statesmen when they roar</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Startle the ancient echoes of his snore,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which from their dusty nooks expostulate</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And close with stormy clamor the debate.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To low melodious thunders then they fade;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Their murmuring lullabies all ears invade;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Peace takes the Chair; the portal Silence keeps;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No motion stirs the dark Lethean deeps⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Washoe has spoken and the Senate sleeps.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="three-kinds-of-a-rogue-2" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Lo! the new Sharon with a new intent,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Making no laws, but keen to circumvent</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The laws of Nature (since he can’t repeal)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That break his failing body on the wheel.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As Tantalus again and yet again</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The elusive wave endeavors to restrain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To slake his awful thirst, so Sharon tries</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To purchase happiness that age denies;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Obtains the shadow, but the substance goes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And hugs the thorn, but cannot keep the rose;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For Dead Sea fruits bids prodigally, eats,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And then, with tardy reformation⁠—cheats.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Alert his faculties as three score years</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And four score vices will permit, he nears⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dicing with Death⁠—the finish of the game,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And curses still his candle’s wasting flame,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The narrow circle of whose feeble glow</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dims and diminishes at every throw.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Moments his losses, pleasures are his gains,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which even in his grasp revert to pains.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The joy of grasping⁠—that alone remains.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="three-kinds-of-a-rogue-3" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Ring up the curtain and the play protract!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Behold our Sharon in his last mad act.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With man long warring, quarreling with God,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He crouches now beneath a woman’s rod</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Predestined for his back while yet it lay</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Closed in an acorn which, one luckless day,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He stole, unconscious of its fœtal twig,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From the scant garner of a sightless pig.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With bleeding shoulders pitilessly scored,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He bawls more lustily than once he snored.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The sympathetic “Comstocks” droop to hear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Carson river sheds a viscous tear</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which sturdy tumble-bugs assail amain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With ready thrift, and urge along the plain.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The jackass rabbit sorrows as he lopes;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The sage-brush glooms along the mountain slopes;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In rising clouds the poignant alkali,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tearless itself, makes everybody cry.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Washoe canaries” on the Geiger Grade</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Subdue the singing of their cavalcade,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And, wiping with their ears the tears unshed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Grieve for their family’s unlucky head.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Virginia City intermits her trade</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And well-clad strangers walk her streets unflayed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nay, all Nevada ceases work to weep</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the recording angel goes to sleep.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But in his dreams his goose-quill’s creaking fount</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Augments the debits in the long account.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And still the continents and oceans ring</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With royal torments of the Silver King!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Incessant bellowings fill all the earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Mingled with inextinguishable mirth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He roars, men laugh, Nevadans weep, beasts howl,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Plash the affrighted fish, and shriek the fowl!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With monstrous din their blended thunders rise,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Peal upon peal, and blare along the skies,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Startle in hell the Sharons as they groan,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And shake the splendors of the great white throne!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Still roaring outward through the vast profound,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The spreading circles of receding sound</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pursue each other in a failing race</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the cold confines of eternal space;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>There break and die along that awful shore</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which God’s own eyes have never dared explore⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dark, fearful, formless, nameless evermore!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Look to the west! Against yon steely sky</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lone Mountain rears its holy cross on high.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>About its base the meek-faced dead are laid</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To share the benediction of its shade.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With crossed white hands, shut eyes and formal feet,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Their nights are innocent, their days discreet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sharon, some years, perchance, remain of life⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of vice and greed, vulgarity and strife;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And then⁠—God speed the day if such His will⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You’ll lie among the dead you helped to kill,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And be in good society at last,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Your purse unsilvered and your face unbrassed.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="a-man" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Man</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Pennoyer, Governor of Oregon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Casting to South his eye across the bourne</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of his dominion (where the Palmiped,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With leathers ’twixt his toes, paddles his marsh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amphibious) saw a rising cloud of hats,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And heard a faint, far sound of distant cheers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Below the swell of the horizon. “Lo,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cried one, “the President! the President!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All footed webwise then took up the word⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hill tribes and the tribes lacustrine⁠—all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The folk riparian and littoral,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cried with one voice: “The President! He comes!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And some there were who flung their headgear up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In emulation of the Southern mob,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While some, more soberly disposed, stood still</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And silently had fits; and others made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such reverent genuflexions as they could,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Having that climate in their bones. Then spake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Court Dunce, humbly, as became him: “Sire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If thou, as heretofore thou hast, wilt deign</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To reap advantage of a fool’s advice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By action ordered after nature’s way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As in thy people manifest (for still</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stupidity’s the only wisdom) thou</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wilt get thee straight unto to the border land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To mark the President’s approach with such</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Due, decent courtesy as it shall seem</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We have in custom the best warrant for.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Pennoyer, Governor of Oregon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eyeing the storm of hats which darkened all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Southern sky, and hearing far hurrahs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of an exulting people, answered not.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then some there were who fell upon their knees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And some upon their Governor, and sought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each in his way, by blandishment or force,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To gain his action to their end. “Behold,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They said, “thy brother Governor to South</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Met him even at the gateway of his realm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crook-kneed, magnetic-handed and agrin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Backed like a rainbow⁠—all things done in form</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of due observance and respect. Shall we</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alone of all his servitors refuse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swift welcome to our master and our lord?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Pennoyer, Governor of Oregon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Answered them not, but turned his back to them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And as if speaking to himself, the while</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He started to retire, said: “He be damned!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To that High Place o’er Portland’s central block,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the Recording Angel stands to view</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sinning world, nor thinks to move his feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Aside and look below, came flocking up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inferior angels, all aghast, and cried:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Pennoyer, Governor of Oregon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has said, O what an awful word!⁠—too bad</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be by us repeated!” “Yes, I know,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said the superior bird⁠—“I heard it too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And have already booked it. Pray observe.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Splitting the giant tome, whose covers fell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Apart, o’ershadowing to right and left</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Eastern and the Western world, he showed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The newly written entry, black and big⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the credit side of thine account,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pennoyer, Governor of Oregon.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ye-foe-to-cathaye" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Y<sup>e</sup> Foe to Cathaye</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O never an oathe sweares he,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And never a pig-taile jerkes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With a brick-batte he ne lurkes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For to buste y<sup>e</sup> crust, perdie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of y<sup>e</sup> man from over sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A-synging as he werkes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For he knows ful well, y<sup>s</sup> youth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A tricke of exceeding worth:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he plans withouten ruth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A conflagration’s birth!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="samuel-shortridge" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Samuel Shortridge</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Like a worn mother he attempts in vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To still the unruly Crier of his brain:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The more he rocks the cradle of his chin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The more uproarious grows the brat within.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="at-a-national-encampment" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">At a “National Encampment”</h3>
				<p>
					<span>You’re grayer than one would have thought you:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The climate you have over there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the East has apparently brought you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Disorders affecting the hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which⁠—pardon me⁠—seems a bit spare.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You’ll not take offence at my giving</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Expression to notions like these.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You might have been stronger if living</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Out here in our sanative breeze.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It’s unhealthy here for disease.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No, I’m not as plump as a pullet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But that’s the old wound, you see.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remember my paunching a bullet?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And how that it didn’t agree</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With⁠—well, honest hardtack for me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Just pass me the wine⁠—I’ve a helly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And horrible kind of drouth!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When a fellow has that in his belly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which didn’t go in at his mouth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He’s hotter than all Down South!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Great Scott! what a nasty day <em>that</em> was⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When every galoot in our crack</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Division who didn’t lie flat was</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dissuaded from further attack</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By the bullet’s felicitous whack.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Twas there that our major slept under</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some cannon of ours on the crest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till they woke him by stilling their thunder,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he cursed them for breaking his rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And died in the midst of his jest.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That night⁠—it was late in November⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The dead seemed uncommonly chill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the touch; and one chap I remember</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who took it exceedingly ill</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When I dragged myself over his bill.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Well, comrades, I’m off now⁠—good morning.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your talk is as pleasant as pie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, pardon me, one word of warning:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Speak little and seldom, say I.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That’s my way. God bless you. Good-bye.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="theosophistry" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Theosophistry</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Says Anderson, Theosophist:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Among the many that exist</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In modern halls.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some lived in ancient Egypt’s clime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in their childhood saw the prime</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Karnak’s walls.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, Anderson, if that is true</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis my conviction, sir, that you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are one of those</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That once resided by the Nile⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Peer to the Sacred Crocodile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Heir to his woes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My judgment is, the Holy Cat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mews through your larynx (and your hat)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">These many years.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through you the Hallowed Onion brings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its melancholy sense of things,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And moves to tears.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In you the Bull Divine again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bellows and paws the dusty plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To nature true.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I challenge not his ancient hate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, lowering my knurly pate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lock horns with you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And though Reincarnation prove</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A creed too stubborn to remove,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And all your school</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Theosophs I cannot scare⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the more earnestly I swear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That you’re a fool!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You’ll say that this is mere abuse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without, in fraying you, a use.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That’s plain to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With only half an eye. Come, now,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be fair, be fair⁠—consider how</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It eases <em>me</em>.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="azrael" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Azrael</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The moon in the field of the keel-plowed main</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was watching the growing tide;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A luminous peasant was driving his wain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he offered my soul a ride.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But I nourished a sorrow uncommonly tall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And I fixed him fast with my eye.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“O, peasant,” I sang with a dying fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Go leave me to sing and die.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The water was weltering round my feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As prone on the beach they lay.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I chanted my death-song loud and sweet:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Kioodle, ioodle, iay!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then I heard the swish of erecting ears</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which caught that enchanting strain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ocean was swollen with storms of tears</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That fell from the shining swain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O, poet,” leapt he to the soaken strand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“That ravishing song would make</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The devil a saint!” He held out his hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And solemnly added: “Shake.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We shook. “I crave a victim, you see,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He said⁠—“you came hither to die.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Angel of Death, ’twas he! ’twas he!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the victim he crove was I!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Twas I, Fred Emerson Brooks, the bard;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he knocked me on the head.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Lord! I thought it uncommonly hard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For I didn’t want to be dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“You’ll sing no worser for that,” said he,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he drove with my soul away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, death-song singers, be warned by me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Kioodle, ioodle, iay!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="competition" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Competition</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Seraphs came to Christ and said: “Behold!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The man, presumptuous and overbold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who boasted that his mercy could excel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thine own, is dead and on his way to Hell.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Gravely the Savior asked: “What did he do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make his impious assertion true?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“He was a Governor, releasing all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The vilest felons ever held in thrall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No other mortal, since the dawn of time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has ever pardoned such a mass of crime!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Christ smiled benignly on the Seraphim:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Yet I am victor, for I pardon <em>him</em>.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-vision-of-doom" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Vision of Doom</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I stood upon a hill. The setting sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was crimson with a curse and a portent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And scarce his angry ray lit up the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That lay below, whose lurid gloom appeared</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Freaked with a moving mist, which, reeking up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From dim tarns hateful with some horrid ban,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Took shapes forbidden and without a name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gigantic night-birds, rising from the reeds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With cries discordant, startled all the air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bodiless voices babbled in the gloom⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ghosts of blasphemies long ages stilled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shrieks of women, and men’s curses. All</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These visible shapes, and sounds no mortal ear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had ever heard, some spiritual sense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Interpreted, though brokenly; for I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was haunted by a consciousness of crime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some giant guilt, but whose I knew not. All</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These things malign, by sight and sound revealed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were sin-begotten; that I knew⁠—no more⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that but dimly, as in dreadful dreams</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sleepy senses babble to the brain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Imperfect witness. As I stood, a voice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But whence it came I knew not, cried aloud</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some words to me in a forgotten tongue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet straight I knew me for a ghost forlorn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Returned from the illimited inane.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Again, but in a language that I knew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As in reply to something which in me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had shaped itself a thought, but found no words,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It spake from the dread mystery about:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Immortal shadow of a mortal soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That perished with eternity, attend.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What thou beholdest is as void as thou:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shadow of a poet’s dream⁠—himself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As thou, his soul as thine, long dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But not like thine outlasted by its shade.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His dreams alone survive eternity</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As pictures in the unsubstantial void.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Excepting thee and me (and we because</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The poet wove us in his thought) remains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of nature and the universe no part</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor vestige but the poet’s dreams. This dread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unspeakable land about thy feet, with all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its desolation and its terrors⁠—lo!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis but a phantom world. So long ago</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That God and all the angels since have died</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That poet lived⁠—yourself long dead⁠—his mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Filled with the light of a prophetic fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And standing by the Western sea, above</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The youngest, fairest city in the world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Named in another tongue than his for one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ensainted, saw its populous domain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Plague-smitten with a nameless shame. For there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Red-handed murder rioted; and there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The people gathered gold, nor cared to loose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The assassin’s fingers from the victim’s throat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But said, each in his vile pursuit engrossed:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Am I my brother’s keeper? Let the Law</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Look to the matter.’ But the Law did not.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there, O pitiful! the babe was slain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within its mother’s breast and the same grave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Held babe and mother; and the people smiled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still gathering gold, and said: ‘The Law, the Law.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then the great poet, touched upon the lips</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a live coal from Truth’s high altar, raised</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His arms to heaven and sang a song of doom⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sang of the time to be, when God should lean</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Indignant from the Throne and lift His hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that foul city be no more!⁠—a tale,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dream, a desolation and a curse!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No vestige of its glory should survive</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In fact or memory: its people dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its site forgotten, and its very name</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Disputed.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">“Was the prophecy fulfilled?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The sullen disc of the declining sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was crimson with a curse and a portent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And scarce his angry ray lit up the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Freaked with a moving mist, which, reeking up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From dim tarns hateful with a horrid ban,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Took shapes forbidden and without a name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bodiless voices babbled in the gloom.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But not to me came any voice again;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, covering my face with thin, dead hands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wept, and woke, and cried aloud to God!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="religious-progress" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Religious Progress</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>Every religion is important. When men rise above existing conditions a new religion comes in, and it is better than the old one.</p>
						<cite>Professor Howison</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Professor dear, I think it queer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That all these good religions</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(’Twixt you and me, some two or three</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are schemes for plucking pigeons)⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I mean ’tis strange that every change</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our poor minds to unfetter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Entails a new religion⁠—true</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As t’ other one, and better.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From each in turn the truth we learn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That wood or flesh or spirit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May justly boast it rules the roast</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Until we cease to fear it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, once upon a time long gone</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Man worshipped Cat and Lizard:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His God he’d find in any kind</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of beast, from a to izzard.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When risen above his early love</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of dirt and blood and slumber,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He pulled down these vain deities,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And made one out of lumber.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Far better that than even a cat,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Howisons all shouted;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“When God is wood religion’s good!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But one poor cynic doubted.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“A timber God⁠—that’s very odd!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Said Progress, and invented</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The simple plan to worship Man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who, kindly soul! consented.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But soon our eye we lift asky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our vows all unregarded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And find (at least so says the priest)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Truth⁠—and Man’s discarded.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Along our line of march recline</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dead gods devoid of feeling;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thick about each sun-cracked lout</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dried Howisons are kneeling.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-fall-of-miss-larkin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Fall of Miss Larkin</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Hear me sing of Sally Larkin who, I’d have you understand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Played accordions as well as any lady in the land;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I’ve often heard it stated that her fingering was such</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Professor Schweinenhauer was enchanted with her touch;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that beasts were so affected when her apparatus rang</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That they dropped upon their haunches and deliriously sang.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This I know from testimony, though a critic, I opine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Needs an ear that is dissimilar in some respects to mine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She could sing, too, like a jaybird, and they say all eyes were wet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Sally and the ranch-dog were performing a duet⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which I take it is a song that has to be so loudly sung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As to overtax the strength of any single human lung.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That, at least, would seem to follow from the tale I have to tell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which (I’ve told you how she flourished) is how Sally Larkin fell.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One day there came to visit Sally’s dad as sleek and smart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A chap as ever wandered there from any foreign part.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though his gentle birth and breeding he did not at all obtrude</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was somehow whispered round he was a simon-pure Dude.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Howsoe’er that may have been, it was conspicuous to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he was a real Gent of an uncommon high degree.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Sally cast her tender and affectionate regards</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On this exquisite creation was, of course, upon the cards;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But he didn’t seem to notice, and was variously blind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To her many charms of person and the merits of her mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And preferred, I grieve to say it, to play poker with her dad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And acted in a manner that in general was bad.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One evening⁠—’twas in summer⁠—she was holding in her lap</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her accordion, and near her stood that melancholy chap,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leaning up against a pillar with his lip in grog imbrued,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thinking, maybe, of that ancient land in which he was a Dude.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then Sally, who was melancholy too, began to hum</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And elongate the accordion with a preluding thumb.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then sighs of amorosity she painfully exhaled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And her music apparatus sympathetically wailed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“In the gloaming, O my darling!” rose that wild impassioned strain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And her eyes were fixed on his with an intensity of pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till the ranch-dog from his kennel at the postern gate came round,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And going into session strove to magnify the sound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He lifted up his spirit till the gloaming rang and rang</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the song that to <em>his</em> darling he impetuously sang!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then that musing youth, recalling all his soul from other scenes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where his fathers all were Dudes and his mothers all Dudines,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From his lips removed the beaker and politely, o’er the grog,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said: “Miss Larkin, please be quiet: you will interrupt the dog.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-rendezvous" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Rendezvous</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Nightly I put up this humble petition:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Forgive me, O Father of Glories,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My sins of commission, my sins of omission,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My sins of the Mission Dolores!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="yorick" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Yorick</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Hard by an excavated street one sat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In solitary session on the sand;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ever and anon he spake and spat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And spake again⁠—a yellow skull in hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To which that retrospective Pioneer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Addressed the few remarks that follow here:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Who are you? Did you come ‘der blains agross,’</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or ‘Horn aroundt’? In days o’ ’49</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did them thar eye-holes see the Southern Cross</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From the Antarctic Sea git up an’ shine?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or did you drive a bull team ‘all the way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Pike,’ with <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Joseph Bowers?⁠—say!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Was you in Frisco when the water came</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Up to Montgum’ry street? and do you mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The time when Peters run the faro game⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Jim Peters from old Mississip⁠—behind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wells Fargo’s, where he subsequent was bust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By Sandy, as regards both bank and crust?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I wonder was you here when Casey shot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">James King o’ William? And did you attend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The neck-tie dance ensuin’? <em>I</em> did not,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But j’ined the rush to Go Creek with my friend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ed’ard McGowan; for we was resolved</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In sech diversions not to be involved.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Maybe I knowed you; seems to me I’ve seed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your face afore. I don’t forget a face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But names I disremember⁠—I’m that breed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of owls. I’m talking some’at into space,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ maybe my remarks is too derned free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seein’ yer name is unbeknown to me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Ther’ was a time, I reckon, when I knowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nigh onto every dern galoot in town.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That was as late as ’50. Now she’s growed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Surprisin’! Yes, me an’ my pardner, Brown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was wide acquainted. If ther’ was a cuss</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We didn’t know, the cause was⁠—he knowed us.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Maybe you had that claim adjoinin’ mine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Up thar in Calaveras. Was it you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To which Long Mary took a mighty shine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">An’ throwed squar’ off on Jake the Kangaroo?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I guess if she could see ye now she’d take</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her chance o’ happiness along o’ Jake.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“You ain’t so purty now as you was then:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Yer eyes is nothin’ but two prospect holes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ women which are hitched to better men</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Would hardly for sech glances damn their souls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As Lengthie did. By God! I <em>hope</em> it’s you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For” <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">kicks the skull</i> “I’m Jake the Kangaroo.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="stanfords-welcome" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Stanford’s Welcome</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“O son of mine age, these eyes lose their fire:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be eyes, I pray, to thy dying sire.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O father, fear not, for mine eyes are bright⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I read through a millstone at dead of night.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“My son, O tell me, who are those men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rushing, like pigs to the feeding-pen?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Welcomers they of a statesman grand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They’ll shake, and then they will pocket, his hand.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Sagacious youth with the wondrous eye.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They seem to throw up their headgear. Why?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Because they’ve thrown up their hands until, O,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They’re so tired!⁠—and dinners they’ve none to throw.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“My son, my son, though dull are mine ears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hear a great sound like the people’s cheers.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“He’s thanking them, father, with tears in his eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For giving him lately that fine surprise.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“My memory fails as I near mine end;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How <em>did</em> they astonish their grateful friend?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“By letting him buy, like apples or oats,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With that which has made him so good, the votes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which make him so wise and grand and great.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now, father, please die, for ’tis growing late.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="posteritys-award" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Posterity’s Award</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I’d long been dead, but I returned to earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some small affairs posterity was making</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A mess of, and I came to see that worth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Received its dues. I’d hardly finished waking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The grave-mould still upon me, when my eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perceived a statue standing straight and high.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Twas a colossal figure⁠—bronze and gold⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nobly designed, in attitude commanding.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A toga from its shoulders, fold on fold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fell to the pedestal on which ’twas standing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nobility it had and splendid grace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all it should have had⁠—except a face!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It showed no features: not a trace nor sign</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of any eyes or nose could be detected⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the smooth oval of its front no line</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where sites for mouths are commonly selected.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All blank and blind its faulty head it reared.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let this be said: ’twas generously eared.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Seeing these things, I straight began to guess</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For whom this mighty image was intended.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The head,” I cried, “is Upton’s, and the dress</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is Parson Bartlett’s own.” True, <em>his</em> cloak ended</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flush with his lowest vertebra, but no</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sane sculptor ever made a toga so.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then on the pedestal these words I read:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“<em>Erected Eighteen Hundred Ninety-seven</em>”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Saint Christofer! how fast the time had sped!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of course it naturally does in Heaven)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“<em>To</em> ⸻” (here a blank space for the name began)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“<em>The Nineteenth Century’s Great Foremost Man!</em>”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“<em>Completed</em>” the inscription ended, “<em>in</em></span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1"><em>The Year Three Thousand</em>“⁠—which was just arriving.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By Jove! thought I, ’twould make the founders grin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To learn whose fame so long has been surviving⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To read the name posterity will place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In that blank void, and view the finished face.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Even as I gazed, the year Three Thousand came,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And then by acclamation all the people</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Decreed whose was our century’s best fame;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Then scaffolded the statue like a steeple,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make the likeness; and the name was sunk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deep in the pedestal’s metallic trunk.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Whose was it? Gentle reader, pray excuse</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The seeming rudeness, but I can’t consent to</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be so forehanded with important news.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">’Twas neither yours nor mine⁠—let that content you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If not, the name I must surrender, which,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon a dead man’s word, was Decon Fitch!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-art-critic" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Art Critic</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Ira <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P.</abbr> Rankin, you’ve a nasal name⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll sound it through “the speaking-trump of fame,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wondering nations, hearing from afar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The brazen twang of its resounding jar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall say: “These bards are an uncommon class⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They blow their noses with a tube of brass!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So you object to Cytherea! Do,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The picture was not painted, sir, for you!</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>Your</em> mind to gratify and taste address,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The masking dove had been a dove the less.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Provincial censor! all untaught in art,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With mind indecent and indecent heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do you not know⁠—nay, why should I explain?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Instruction, argument alike were vain⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll show you reasons when you show me brain.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-spirit-of-a-sponge" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Spirit of a Sponge</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I dreamed one night that Stephen Massett died,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And for admission up at Heaven applied.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Who are you?” asked <abbr>St.</abbr> Peter. Massett said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Jeems Pipes, of Pipesville.” Peter bowed his head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Opened the gates and said: “I’m glad to know you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wish we’d something better, sir, to show you.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Don’t mention it,” said Stephen, looking bland,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And was about to enter, hat in hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When from a cloud below such fumes arose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As tickled tenderly his conscious nose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He paused, replaced his hat upon his head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Turned back and to the saintly warden said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O’er his already sprouting wings: “I swear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I smell some broiling going on down there!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So Massett’s paunch, attracted by the smell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Followed his nose and found a place in Hell.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ornithanthropos" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Ornithanthropos</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“Let John <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P.</abbr> Irish rise!” the edict rang</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As when Creation into being sprang!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nature, not clearly understanding, tried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make a bird that on the air could ride.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But naught could baffle the creative plan⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Despite her efforts ’twas almost a man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet he had risen⁠—to the bird a twin⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had she but fixed a wing upon his chin.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-e-s-salomon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">To <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">E. S.</abbr> Salomon</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>Who in a Memorial Day oration protested bitterly against decorating the graves of Confederate dead.</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>What! Salomon! such words from you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who call yourself a soldier? Well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Southern brother where he fell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slept all your base oration through.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Alike to him⁠—he cannot know</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your praise or blame: as little harm</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your tongue can do him as your arm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A quarter-century ago.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The brave respect the brave. The brave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Respect the dead; but <em>you</em>⁠—you draw</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That ancient blade, the ass’s jaw,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shake it o’er a hero’s grave.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Are you not he who makes to-day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A merchandise of old renown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which he persuades this easy town</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He won in battle far away?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, those the fallen who revile</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Have ne’er before the living stood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And stoutly made their battle good</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And greeted danger with a smile.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What if the dead whom still you hate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Were wrong? Are you so surely right?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We know the issue of the fight⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sword is but an advocate.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Men live and die, and other men</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Arise with knowledges diverse:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What seemed a blessing seems a curse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Now is still at odds with Then.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The years go on, the old comes back</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To mock the new⁠—beneath the sun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is <em>nothing</em> new; ideas run</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Recurrent in an endless track.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What most we censure, men as wise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Have reverently practiced; nor</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Will future wisdom fail to war</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On principles we dearly prize.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We do not know⁠—we can but deem,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he is loyalest and best</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who takes the light full on his breast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And follows it throughout the dream.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The broken light, the shadows wide⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Behold the battle-field displayed!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">God save the vanquished from the blade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The victor from the victor’s pride!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If, Salomon, the blessed dew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That falls upon the Blue and Gray</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is powerless to wash away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sin of differing from you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Remember how the flood of years</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Has rolled across the erring slain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Remember, too, the cleansing rain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of widows’ and of orphans’ tears.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The dead are dead⁠—let that atone:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And though with equal hand we strew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The blooms on saint and sinner too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet God will know to choose his own.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The wretch, whate’er his life and lot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who does not love the harmless dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With all his heart and all his head⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May God forgive him⁠—<em>I</em> shall not.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When, Salomon, you come to quaff</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Darker Cup with meeker face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I, loving you at last, shall trace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon your tomb this epitaph:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Draw near, ye generous and brave⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Kneel round this monument and weep</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For one who tried in vain to keep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A flower from a soldier’s grave.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="dennis-kearney" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Dennis Kearney</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Your influence, my friend, has gathered head⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To east and west its tides encroaching spread.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There’ll be, on all God’s foot-stool, when they meet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No clean spot left for Him to set His feet.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="finis-aeternitatis" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Finis Ӕternitatis</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Strolling at sunset in my native land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With fruits and flowers thick on either hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I crossed a Shadow flung athwart my way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Emerging on a waste of rock and sand.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“The apples all are gone from here,” I said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The roses perished and their spirits fled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I will go back.” A voice cried out: “The man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is risen who eternally was dead!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I turned and saw an angel standing there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Newly descended from the heights of air.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sweet-eyed compassion filled his face, his hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A naked sword and golden trumpet bare.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Nay, ’twas not death, the shadow that I crossed,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I said. “Its chill was but a touch of frost.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It made me gasp, but quickly I came through,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With breath recovered ere it scarce was lost.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Twas the same land! Remembered mountains thrust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grayed heads asky, and every dragging gust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In ashen valleys where my sons had reaped,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stirred in familiar river-beds the dust.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Some heights, where once the traveler was shown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The youngest and the proudest city known,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lifted smooth ridges in the steely light⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bleak, desolate acclivities of stone.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where I had worshiped at my father’s tomb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within a massive temple’s awful gloom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A jackal slunk along the naked rock,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Affrighted by some prescience of doom.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Man’s vestiges were nowhere to be found,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save one brass mausoleum on a mound</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(I knew it well) spared by the artist Time</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To emphasize the desolation round.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Into the stagnant sea the sullen sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sank behind bars of crimson, one by one.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Eternity’s at hand!” I cried aloud.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Eternity,” the angel said, “is done.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“For man is ages dead in every zone;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The angels all are dead but I alone;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The devils, too, are cold enough at last,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And God lies dead before the great white throne!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“ ’Tis foreordained that I bestride the shore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When all are gone (as Gabriel did before,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When I had throttled the last man alive)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And swear Eternity shall be no more.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O Azrael⁠—O Prince of Death, declare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why conquered I the grave?” I cried. “What rare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Conspicuous virtues won this boon for me?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You’ve been revived,” he said, “to hear me swear.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Then let me creep again beneath the grass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And knock you at yon pompous tomb of brass.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If ears are what you want, Charles Crocker’s there⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Betwixt the greatest ears, the greatest ass.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He rapped, and while the hollow echoes rang,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out at the door a curst hyena sprang</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And fled! Said Azrael: “His soul’s escaped,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And closed the brazen portal with a bang.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-veteran" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Veteran</h3>
				<p>
					<span>John Jackson, once a soldier bold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hath still a martial feeling;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, when he sees a foe, behold!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He charges him⁠—with stealing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He cares not how much ground to-day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He gives for men to doubt him;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’s used to giving ground, they say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who lately fought with⁠—out him.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When, for the battle to be won,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His gallantry was needed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They say each time a loaded gun</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Went off⁠—so, likewise, he did.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And when discharged (for war’s a sport</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So hot he had to leave it)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He made a very loud report,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But no one did believe it.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-exhibit" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An “Exhibit”</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Goldenson hanged! Well, Heaven forbid</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That I should smile above him:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though truth to tell, I never did</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Exactly love him.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It can’t be wrong, though, to rejoice</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That his unpleasing capers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are ended. Silent is his voice</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">In all the papers.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No longer he’s a show: no more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Bear-like, his den he’s walking.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No longer can he hold the floor</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">When I’d be talking.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The laws that govern jails are bad</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If such displays are lawful.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fate of the assassin’s sad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">But ours is awful!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What! shall a wretch condemned to die</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In shame upon the gibbet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be set before the public eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">As an “exhibit”?⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His looks, his actions noted down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His words, if light or solemn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all this hawked about the town⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">So much a column?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The press, of course, will publish news</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">However it may get it;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But blast the sheriff who’ll abuse</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">His powers to let it!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, this is not ingratitude;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I’m no reporter, truly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor yet an editor. I’m rude⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Perhaps unruly⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Because I burn with shame and rage</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beyond my power of telling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see assassins in a cage</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">And keepers yelling.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Walk up! Walk up!” the showman cries:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Observe the lion’s poses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His stormy mane, his glooming eyes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">His⁠—hold your noses!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>How long, O Lord, shall Law and Right</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Be mocked for gain or glory,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And angels weep as they recite</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The shameful story?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-transmigrations-of-a-soul" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Transmigrations of a Soul</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What! Pixley, must I hear you call the roll</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of all the vices that infest your soul?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was’t not enough that lately you did bawl</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your money-worship in the ears of all?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still must you crack your brazen cheek to tell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That though a miser you’re a sot as well?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still must I hear how low your taste has sunk⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From getting money down to getting drunk?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Who worships money, damning all beside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shows his callous knees with pious pride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Speaks with half-knowledge, for no man e’er scorns</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His own possessions, be they coins or corns.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’ve money, neighbor; had you gentle birth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’d know, as now you never can, its worth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You’ve money; learning is beyond your scope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deaf to your envy, stubborn to your hope.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But if upon your undeserving head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Science and letters had their glory shed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If in the cavern of your skull the light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of knowledge shone where now eternal night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Breeds the blind, poddy, vapor-fatted naughts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of cerebration that you think are thoughts⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Black bats in cold and dismal corners hung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That squeak and gibber when you move your tongue⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You would not write, in Avarice’s defense,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A senseless eulogy on lack of sense,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor show your eagerness to sacrifice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All noble virtues to one loathsome vice.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You’ve money; if you’d manners too you’d shame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To boast your weakness or your baseness name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Appraise the things you have, but measure not</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The things denied to your unhappy lot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He values manners lighter than a cork</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who combs his beard at table with a fork.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hare to seek sin and tortoise to forsake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The laws of taste condemn you to the stake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To expiate, where all the world may see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The crime of growing old disgracefully.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Distinction, learning, birth and manners, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All that distinguishes a man from you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pray damn at will: all shining virtues gain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An added luster from a rogue’s disdain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But spare the young that proselyting sin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A toper’s apotheosis of gin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If not our young, at least our pigs may claim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exemption from the spectacle of shame!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Are you not he who lately out of shape</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blew a brass trumpet to denounce the grape?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who led the brave teetotalers afield</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And slew your leader underneath your shield?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swore that no man should drink unless he flung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Himself across your body at the bung?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who vowed if you’d the power you would fine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Son of God for making water wine?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All trails to odium you tread and boast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yourself enamored of the dirtiest most.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One day to be a miser you aspire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The next to wallow drunken in the mire;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The third, lo! you’re a meritorious liar!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pray, in the catalogue of all your graces</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have theft and cowardice no honored places?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yield thee, great Satan⁠—here’s a rival name</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With all thy vices and but half thy shame!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quick to the letter of the precept, quick</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the example of the elder Nick;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With as great talent as was e’er applied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fool a teacher and to fog a guide;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With slack allegiance and boundless greed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To paunch the profit of a traitor deed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He aims to make thy glory all his own,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And crowd his master from the infernal throne!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="indictment-on-evidence" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Indictment on Evidence</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Bruce Douglas, nephew to a Scottish Earl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sat in the City Prison, low in heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And spirits. Round him lay the forms of men⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men of the people, of ignoble birth⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prone or supine in sleep; but sleep and he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were out: the Douglas was too drunk for sleep.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so he sat and moaned; and still his moan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had all the cadences and stops of song⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Recurrent swells and measured silences</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which sought the ear as ocean’s billows roll,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At even spaces and with matching speed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One after one ashore. Wherefore uprose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An old gray constable who in the morn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And blossom of his life had courted fame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As horse-reporter for a public print,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so was skilled in letters, and he spake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There to the sergeant, saying: “Surely, now,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The man’s a poet. In his moan I hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pulsing and the passion of the sea⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hear the far beating of the waterfall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Throbbing of noon-day insects in the grass⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All rhythmic movements of the universe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which poets echo in their thought and speech,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even in their inarticulate complaints</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of pain. My life I’ll hazard that the man’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A bard disguised to look a gentleman.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, bringing his effects, which had till then</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lain unconsidered⁠—from his pockets plucked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tossed aside⁠—all curiously they</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Explored the papers. Odes and odes there were,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And every ode in praise of some fair scene</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a fair land; and the fair land was this</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our California. From the snowy peaks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That glitter in the skies of Siskiyou,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down to the golden margin where the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slips underneath the San Diegan bay;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And from the dim Sierra, far across</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To where old Ocean bears upon his breast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Mongol horde returning to its own,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its native land and its dear household gods,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bruce Douglas, nephew of a Scottish Earl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had sung the beauty of the Golden State!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So then the Clerk, splitting the Book of Doom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Charged him therein with murder, arson, rape,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Theft, libel, mayhem and intent to leave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The State and so defraud his creditors⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With vagrancy, extortion and assault</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Felonious, obtaining cash by false</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pretenses⁠—with infanticide⁠—even him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bruce Douglas, nephew of a Scottish Earl.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-an-aspirant" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To an Aspirant</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What! you a Senator?⁠—you, Mike de Young?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still reeking of the gutter whence you sprung?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sir, if all Senators were such as you⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their hands so slender and so crimson too</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Shaped to the pocket for commercial work,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For literary, fitted to the dirk)⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So black their hearts, so lily-white their livers⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The toga’s touch would give a man the shivers!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="at-the-white-house" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">At the White House</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Among the notables one day that came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see the President was one whose name</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was known from Porto Rico to Luzon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Although it wasn’t Smith nor even John.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Renowned in field and council too, for he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had tilled the soil and been a school trustee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Occasionally, just to pass the time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He worked at patriotism and scowled at crime;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Went up and down the land denouncing those</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who loved him little as the country’s foes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Predicted famine when they scorned his story,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And for the ensuing harvest claimed the glory.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His name indeed was famous, but because</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My memory’s weak I know not what it was.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The President he came that day to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was as illustrious in his way as he.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His name a household word⁠—that is to say</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men damned him roundly to begin the day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deplored him in the fireside’s rosy light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And grunted disesteem throughout the night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not all men⁠—some, the sons of pious mothers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prayed for him daily as upon him others.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sleek, snug, self-righteous, cunning as a rat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A fish in fervor and in faith a cat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Obscure by nature, he had ne’er been great</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If Fortune had not kicked him into state.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His name? Go ask Posterity, not me⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From words opprobrious my page is free.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So they were married⁠—no I mean they met;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For aught I know they are in session yet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There in the White House, for each swore the place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Belonged to him by God’s abounding grace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, O, may He take measures to prevent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If both at once they would be President.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="tidings-of-good" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Tidings of Good</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Old Nick from his place of last resort</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Came up and looked the world over.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He saw how the grass of the good was short</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the wicked lived in clover.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And he gravely said: “This is all, all wrong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And never by me intended.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If to me the power ever belong</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I shall have this thing amended.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He looked so solemn and good and wise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As he made this observation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the men who heard him believed their eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Instead of his reputation.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So they bruited the matter about, and each</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Reported the words as nearly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As memory served⁠—with additional speech</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To bring out the meaning clearly.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The consequence was that none understood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the wildest rumors started</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of something intended to help the good</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And injure the evil-hearted.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then Robert Morrow was seen to smile</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With a bright and lively joyance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“A man,” said he, “that is free from guile</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Will now be free from annoyance.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“The Featherstones doubtless will now increase</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And multiply like the rabbits,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While jailers, deputy sheriffs, police,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And writers will form good habits.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“The widows more easily robbed will be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And no juror will ever heed ’em,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But open his purse to my eloquent plea</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For security, gain, or freedom.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When Benson heard of the luck of the good</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(He was eating his dinner) he muttered:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“It cannot help <em>me</em>, for ’tis understood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My bread is already buttered.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“My plats of surveys are all false, they say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But that cannot greatly matter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To me, for I’ll tell the jurors that they</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">May lick, if they please, my platter.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-actor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Actor</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Some one (’tis hardly new) has oddly said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The color of a trumpet’s blare is red;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Joseph Emmett thinks the crimson shame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On woman’s cheek a trumpet-note of fame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The more the red storm rises round her nose⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The more her eyes averted seek her toes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He fancies all the louder he can hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tube resounding in his spacious ear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, all his varied talents to exert,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deepens his dullness to display his dirt.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when the gallery’s indecent crowd,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gentlemen below, with hisses loud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In hot contention (these his art to crown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And those his naked nastiness to drown)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Make such a din that cheeks erewhile aflame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grow white and in their fear forget their shame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With impudence imperial, sublime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unmoved, the patient actor bides his time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till storm and counter-storm are both allayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like donkeys, each by t’other one outbrayed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When all the place is silent as a mouse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One slow, suggestive gesture clears the house!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="famines-realm" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Famine’s Realm</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To him in whom the love of Nature has</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Imperfectly supplanted the desire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dread necessity of food, your shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fair Oakland, is a terror. Over all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your sunny level, from Tamaletown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To where the Pestuary’s fragrant slime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With dead dogs studded, bears its azure fleet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Broods the still menace of starvation. Bones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of men and women bleach along the ways</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pampered vultures sleep upon the trees.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is a land of death, and Famine there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Holds sovereignty; though some there be her sway</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who challenge, and intrenched in larders live,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drawing their sustentation from abroad.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But woe to him, the stranger! He shall die</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As die the early righteous in the bud</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And promise of their prime. He, venturesome</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To penetrate the wilds rectangular</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of grass-grown ways luxuriant of blooms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Frequented of the bee and of the blithe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bold squirrel, strays with heedless feet afar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From human habitation and is lost</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In mid-Broadway. There hunger seizes him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And (careless man! deeming God’s providence</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Extends so far) he has not wherewithal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To bate its urgency. Then, lo! appears</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A a restaurant⁠—mealery⁠—a place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where poison battles famine, and the two,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like fish-hawks warring in the upper sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For that which one has taken from the deep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Manage between them to dispatch the prey.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He enters and leaves hope behind. There ends</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His history. Anon his bones, clean-picked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By buzzards (with the bones himself had picked,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Incautious) line the highway. O, my friends,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of all felonious and deadlywise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Devices of the Enemy of Souls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Planted along the ways of life to snare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Man’s mortal and immortal part alike,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Oakland restaurant is chief. It lives</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That man may die. It flourishes that life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May wither. Its foundation stones repose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On human hearts and hopes. I’ve seen in it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crabs stewed in milk and salad offered up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With dressing so unholily compound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That it included flour and sugar! Yea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve eaten dog there!⁠—dog, as I’m a man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dog seethed in sewage of the town! No more⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy hand, Dyspepsia, assumes the pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And scrawls a tortured “Finis” on the page.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-mackaiad" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Mackaiad</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Mackay’s hot wrath to Bonynge, direful spring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of blows unnumbered, heavenly goddess, sing⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That wrath which hurled to Hellman’s office floor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two heroes, mutually smeared with gore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose hair in handfuls marked the dire debate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And riven coat-tails testified their hate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing, muse, what first their indignation fired,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What words augmented it, by whom inspired.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>First, the great Bonynge comes upon the scene</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And asks the favor of the British Queen.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Suppliant he stands and urges all his claim:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His wealth, his portly person and his name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His habitation in the setting sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As child of nature; and his suit he won.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No more the Sovereign, wearied with his plea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From slumber’s chain her faculties can free.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Low and more low the royal eyelids creep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She gives the assenting nod and falls asleep.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Straightway the Bonynges all invade the Court</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And telegraph the news to every port.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath the seas, red-hot, the tidings fly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cables crinkle and the fishes fry!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The world, awaking like a startled bat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exclaims: “A Bonynge? What the devil’s that?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mackay, meanwhile, to envy all attent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Untaught to spare, unable to relent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Walks in our town on needles and on pins,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in a mean, revengeful spirit⁠—grins!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sing, muse, what next to break the peace occurred⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What act uncivil, what unfriendly word?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The god of Bosh ascending from his pool,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where since creation he has played the fool,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clove the blue slush, as other gods the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, waiting but a moment’s space to dry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Touched Bonynge with his finger-tip. “O son,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He said, “alike of nature and a gun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knowest not Mackay’s insufferable sin?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hast thou not heard that he doth stand and grin?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arise! assert thy manhood, and attest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The uncommercial spirit in thy breast.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Avenge thine honor, for by Jove I swear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou shalt not else be my peculiar care!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He spake, and ere his worshiper could kneel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had dived into his slush pool, head and heel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Full of the god and to revenges nerved,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And conscious of a will that never swerved,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bonynge set sail: our world beyond the wave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As gladly took him as the other gave.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>New York received him, but a shudder ran</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through all the western coast, which knew the man;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And science said that the seismic agitation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was due to mutable equilibration.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O goddess, sing what Bonynge next essayed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did he unscabbard the avenging blade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The long spear brandish and porrect the shield,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Havoc the town and devastate the field?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His sacred thirst for blood did he allay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By halving the unfortunate Mackay?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Small were the profit and the joy to him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hew a base-born person, limb from limb.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let vulgar souls to low revenge incline,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That of diviner spirits is divine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bonynge at noonday stood in public places</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And (with regard to the Mackays) made faces!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before those formidable frowns and scowls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dogs fled, tail-tucked, with affrighted howls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And horses, terrified, with flying feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O’erthrew the apple-stands along the street,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Involving the metropolis in vast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Financial ruin! Men themsevles, aghast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Retreated east and west and north and south</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before the menace of that twisted mouth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till Jove, in answer to their prayers, sent Night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To veil the dreadful visage from their sight!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Such were the causes of the horrid strife⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mother-wrongs which nourished it to life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, for a quill from an archangel’s wing!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, for a voice that’s adequate to sing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The splendor and the terror of the fray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The scattered hair, the coat-tails all astray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The parted collars and the gouts of gore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reeking and smoking on the banker’s floor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The interlocking limbs, embraces dire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Revolving bodies and deranged attire!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Vain, vain the trial: ’tis vouchsafed to none</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To sing two millionaires rolled into one!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My hand and pen their offices refuse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hoarse and hoarser grows the weary muse.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alone remains, to tell of the event,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Abandoned, lost and variously rent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Bonynge nethermost habiliment.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-song-in-praise" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Song in Praise</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Hail, blessed Blunder! golden idol, hail!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clay-footed deity of all who fail.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Celestial image, let thy glory shine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy feet concealing, but a lamp to mine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let me, at seasons opportune and fit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By turns adore thee and by turns commit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In thy high service let me ever be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Yet never serve thee as my critics me)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Happy and fallible, content to feel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I blunder chiefly when to thee I kneel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But best felicity is his thy praise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who utters unaware in works and ways⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who <i xml:lang="la">laborare est orare</i> proves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And feels thy suasion wheresoe’er he moves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Serving thy purpose, not thine altar, still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And working, for he thinks it his, thy will.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If such a life with blessings be not fraught,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I envy Peter Robertson for naught.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-poets-father" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Poet’s Father</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Welcker, I’m told, can boast a father great</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And honored in the service of the State.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Public Instruction all his mind employs⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He guides its methods and its wage enjoys.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prime Pedagogue, imperious and grand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He waves his ferule o’er a studious land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where humming youths, intent upon the page,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thirsting for knowledge with a noble rage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drink dry the whole Pierian spring and ask</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To slake their fervor at his private flask.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arrested by the terror of his frown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The vaulting spit-ball drops untimely down;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fly impaled on the tormenting pin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stills in his awful glance its dizzy din;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath that stern regard the chewing-gum</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which writhed and squeaked between the teeth is dumb;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Obedient to his will the dunce-cap flies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To perch upon the brows of the unwise;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The supple switch forsakes the parent wood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To settle where ’twill do the greatest good,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Puissant still, as when of old it strove</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With Solomon for spitting on the stove.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Learned Professor, variously great,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Guide, guardian, instructor of the State⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quick to discern and zealous to correct</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The faults which mar the public intellect</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From where of Siskiyou the northern bound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is frozen eternal to the sunless ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To where in San Diego’s torrid clime</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The swarthy Greaser swelters in his grime⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath your stupid nose can you not see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dunce whom once you dandled on your knee?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O mighty master of a thousand schools,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stop teaching wisdom, or stop breeding fools.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-coward" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Coward</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When Marriot, distressed by an “attack,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has the strange insolence to answer back</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He hides behind a name that is a lie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And out of shadow falters his reply.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God knows him, though⁠—identified alike</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By hardihood to rise and fear to strike,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fitly to rebuke his sins decrees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That, hide from others with what care he please,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Night sha’n’t be black enough nor earth so wide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That from himself himself can ever hide!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hard fate indeed to feel at every breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His burden of identity till death!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No moment’s respite from the immortal load,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To think himself a serpent or a toad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or dream, with a divine, ecstatic glow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’s long been dead and canonized a crow!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-my-liars" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To My Liars</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Attend, mine enemies of all degrees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From sandlot orators and other fleas</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fallen gentlemen and rising louts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who babble slander at your drinking bouts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, filled with unfamiliar wine, begin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lies drowned, ere born, in more congenial gin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But most attend, ye persons of the press</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who live (though why, yourselves alone can guess)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In hope deferred, ambitious still to shine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By hating me at half a cent a line⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like drones among the bees of brighter wing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sunless to shine and impotent to sting.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To estimate in easy verse I’ll try</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The controversial value of a lie.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So lend your ears⁠—God knows you have enough!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I mean to teach, and if I can’t I’ll cuff.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A lie is wicked, so the priests declare;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that to us is neither here nor there.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis worse than wicked, it is vulgar too;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i xml:lang="fr">N’importe</i>⁠—with that we’ve nothing here to do.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If ’twere artistic I would lie till death,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shape a falsehood with my latest breath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Parrhasius never more did pity lack,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The while his model writhed upon the rack,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than I should for my adversary’s pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Who, stabbed with fibs again and yet again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would vainly seek to move my stubborn heart)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If slander were, and wit were not, an art.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ill-bred and illiterate can lie</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As fast as you, and faster far than I.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall I compete, then, in a strife accurst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where Allen Forman is an easy first,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And where the second prize is rightly flung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Charley Shortridge or to Mike de Young?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In mental combat but a single end</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inspires the formidable to contend.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not by the raw recruit’s ambition fired,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By whom foul blows, though harmless, are admired;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not by the coward’s zeal, who, on his knee</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behind the bole of his protecting tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So curves his musket that the bark it fits,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, firing, blows the weapon into bits;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But with the noble aim of one whose heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Values his foeman for he loves his art</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The veteran debater moves afield,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Untaught to libel as untaught to yield.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear foeman mine, I’ve but this end in view⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That to prevent which most you wish to do.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What, then, are you most eager to be at?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hate me? Nay, I’ll help you, sir, at that.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This only passion does your soul inspire:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You wish to scorn me. Sir, you shall admire.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Tis not enough my neighbors that you school</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the belief that I’m a rogue or fool;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That small advantage you would gladly trade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For what one moment would <em>yourself</em> persuade.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Write, then, your largest and your longest lie:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>You</em> sha’n’t believe it, howsoe’er you try.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No falsehood you can tell, no evil do,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall turn me from the truth to injure you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So all your war is barren of effect;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I find my victory in your respect.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What profit have you if the world you set</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against me? For the world will soon forget</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It thought me this or that; but I’ll retain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A vivid picture of your moral stain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cherish till my memory expire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sweet, soft consciousness that you’re a liar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is it <em>your</em> triumph, then, to prove that you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will do the thing that I would scorn to do?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God grant that I forever be exempt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From such advantage as my foe’s contempt.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="phil-crimmins" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">“Phil” Crimmins</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Still as he climbed into the public view</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His charms of person more apparent grew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till the pleased world that watched his airy grace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saw nothing of him but his nether face⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forgot his follies with his head’s retreat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And blessed his virtues as it viewed their seat.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-the-scales" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">On the Scales</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The proverb hath it, Waterman:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“There never is great loss without</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some little gain.” ’Tis Nature’s plan</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of restitution, I’ve no doubt;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As sometimes a repentant thief</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Restores, for conscience’s relief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some ten per cent., or thereabout,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of all the loot with which he ran.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Dear Governor, when you were ill</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You lost, they say, some twenty pound;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, muse and ponder as I will.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And cast my searching thoughts around,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I find in that great loss no gain⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unless indeed in heart and brain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You suffered it; but I’ll be bound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That they are unaffected still.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For still you’re foolish and absurd,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And still malicious and perverse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As ever; and in truth I’ve heard</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That since recovering you’re worse.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The inference, I think, is fair:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You lost not what we best could spare:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your character remains to curse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The State until you’re sepulchred.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Tis true there’s measurably less</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of you to pack⁠—and you’re a load⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But chiefly that concerns, I guess,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The patient beast that you bestrode</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When, booted, spurred and gloved and all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You led Mark Boruck from the stall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To ride him on that rocky road,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Political unrighteousness.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In gain to Boruck, though, we scan</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A loss to every honest soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It aids the weekly <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Harridan</i>,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His thoroughbred-and-butter foal.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To end: the weight whose loss we mourn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Waterman by illness torn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was mostly <em>water</em>⁠—it were droll</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To learn he’d twenty pounds of <em>man</em>!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="codex-honoris" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title" xml:lang="la">Codex Honoris</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Jacob Jacobs, of Oakland, he swore:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Dat Solomon Martin⁠—I’ll haf his gore!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Solomon Martin, of Oakland, he said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Of Shacob Shacobs der bleed I vill shed!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So they met, with seconds and surgeon at call,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fought with pistol and powder and⁠—all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was done in good faith⁠—as before I said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They fought with pistol and powder and⁠—shed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tears, O my friends, for each other they marred</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fighting with pistol and powder and lard!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the lead had been stolen away, every trace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Christian hog-product supplied its place.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then the shade of Moses indignant arose:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Quvicker dan lighdnings go vosh yer glose!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jacob Jacobs, of Oakland, they say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Applied for a pension the following day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Solomon Martin, of Oakland, I hear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will call himself Colonel for many a year.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-w-h-l-b" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:personal-name">W. H. L. B.</abbr></h3>
				<p>
					<span>Refrain, dull orator, from speaking out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For silence deepens when you raise the shout;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But when you hold your tongue we hear, at least,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your noise in mastering that little beast.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="emancipation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Emancipation</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Behold! the days of miracle at last</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Return⁠—if ever they were truly past:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From sinful creditors’ unholy greed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The church called Calvary at last is freed⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So called for there the Savior’s crucified,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Roberts and Carmany on either side.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The circling contribution-box no more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Provokes the nod and simulated snore;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No more the Lottery, no more the Fair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lures the reluctant dollar from its lair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor Ladies’ Lunches at a bit a bite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Destroy the health yet spare the appetite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While thrifty sisters o’er the cauldron stoop</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To serve their God with zeal, their friends with soup,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the brethren mendicate the earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With viewless placards: “We’ve been <em>so</em> from birth!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sure of his wage, the pastor now can lend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His whole attention to his latter end,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remarking with a martyr’s prescient thrill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Hemp maturing on the cheerless Hill.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The holy brethren, lifting pious palms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pour out their gratitude in prayer and psalms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chant <i xml:lang="la">De Profundis</i>, meaning “out of debt,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dance like mad⁠—or would if they were let.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Deeply disguised (a deacon newly dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Supplied the means) Jack Satan holds his head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As high as any and as loudly sings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His <i xml:lang="la">jubilate</i> till each rafter rings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Rejoice, ye ever faithful,” bellows he,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The debt is lifted and the temple free!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then says, aside, with gentle cachination:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I have a mortgage on the congregation.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="johndonkey" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Johndonkey</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>There isn’t a man living who does not have at least a sneaking reverence for a horse-shoe.</p>
						<cite>
							<i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Evening Post</i>
						</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Thus the poor ass whose appetite has ne’er</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Known than the thistle any sweeter fare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thinks all the world eats thistles. Thus the clown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wit and Mentor of the country town,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grins through the collar of a horse and thinks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Others for pleasure do as he for drinks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though secretly, because unwilling still</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In public to attest their lack of skill.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each dunce whose life and mind all follies mar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Believes as he is all men living are⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His vices theirs, their understandings his;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Naught that he knows not, all he fancies, <em>is</em>,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How odd that any mind such stuff should boast!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How natural to write it in the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Post</i>!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="hell" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Hell</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The friends who stood about my bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Looked down upon my face and said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“God’s will be done⁠—the fellow’s dead.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When from my body I was free</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I straightway felt myself, ah me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sink downward to the life to be.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Full twenty centuries I fell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then alighted. “Here you dwell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For aye,” a Voice cried⁠—“this is Hell!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A landscape lay about my feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where trees were green and flowers sweet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The climate was devoid of heat.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The sun looked down with gentle beam</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the bosom of the stream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor saw I any sign of steam.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The waters by the sky were tinged,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hills with light and color fringed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Birds warbled on the wing unsinged.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Ah, no, this is not Hell,” I cried;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The preachers ne’er so greatly lied,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This is Earth’s spirit glorified!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Good souls do not in Hades dwell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, look, there’s John <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P.</abbr> Irish!” “Well,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Voice said, “that’s what makes it Hell.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="by-false-pretenses" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">By False Pretenses</h3>
				<p>
					<span>John <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">S.</abbr> Hittell, whose sovereign genius wields</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The quill his tributary body yields;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The author of an opera⁠—that is,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All but the music and libretto’s his:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A work renowned, whose formidable name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Linked with his own, repels the assault of fame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the high vantage of a dusty shelf,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Secure from all the world except himself;⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who told the tale of “Culture” in a screed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That all might understand if all would read;⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Master of poesy and lord of prose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dowered, like a setter, with a double nose;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That one for Erato, for Clio this;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He flushes both⁠—not his fault if we miss;⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Judge of the painter’s art, who’ll straight proclaim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hue of any color you can name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And knows a painting with a canvas back</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Distinguished from a duck by the duck’s quack;⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This thinker and philosopher, whose work</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is famous from Commercial street to Turk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has now a fortune, of his pen the meed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A woman left it him who could not read,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so went down to death’s eternal night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweetly unconscious that the wretch could write.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="lucifer-of-the-torch" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Lucifer of the Torch</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O Reverend Ravlin, once with sounding lung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You shook the bloody banner of your tongue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Urged all the fiery boycotters afield</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And swore you’d rather see them die than yield.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alas, how brief the time, how great the change!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your dogs of war are ailing all of mange;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The loose leash dangles from your finger-tips,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the loud “havoc” dies upon your lips.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No spirit animates your feeble clay⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’d rather yield than even run away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In vain McGlashan labors to inspire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your pallid nostril with his breath of fire:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The light of battle’s faded from your face⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You keep the peace, John Chinaman his place.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Ravlin, what cold water, thrown by whom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the kindling Boycott’s ruddy bloom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has slaked your parching blood-thirst and allayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flash and shimmer of your lingual blade?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your salary⁠—your salary’s unpaid!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the old days, when Christ with scourges drave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Ravlins headlong from the Temple’s nave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each bore upon his pelt the mark divine⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Boycott’s red authenticating sign.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Birth-marked forever in surviving hurts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Glowing and smarting underneath their shirts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Successive Ravlins have revenged their shame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By blowing every coal and flinging flame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you, the latest (may you be the last!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Endorsed with that hereditary, vast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And monstrous rubric, would the feud prolong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save that cupidity forbids the wrong.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In strife you preferably pass your days⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But brawl no moment longer than it pays.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By shouting when no more you can incite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dogs to put the timid sheep to flight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To load, for you, the brambles with their fleece,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You cackle concord to congenial geese,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Put pinches of goodwill upon their tails</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pluck them with a touch that never fails.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-whirligig-of-time" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">“The Whirligig of Time”</h3>
				<p>
					<span><abbr>Dr.</abbr> Jewell speaks of Balaam</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his vices, to assail ’em.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ancient enmities how cruel!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Balaam cudgeled once a Jewell.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-railroad-lackey" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Railroad Lackey</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Ben Truman, you’re a genius and can write,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though one would not suspect it from your looks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You lack that certain spareness which is quite</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Distinctive of the persons who make books.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You show the workmanship of Stanford’s cooks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About the region of the appetite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where geniuses are singularly slight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your friends the Chinamen are understood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Indeed, to speak of you as “belly good.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Still, you can write⁠—spell, too, I understand⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though how two such accomplishments can go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like sentimental schoolgirls, hand in hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is more than ever I can hope to know.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To have one talent good enough to show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has always been sufficient to command</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The veneration of the brilliant band</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of railroad scholars, who themselves, indeed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Although they cannot write, can mostly read.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There’s Towne, with Fillmore, Goodman and Steve Gage</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ned Curtis of Napoleonic face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who used to dash his name on glory’s page,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">A. M.</abbr>” appended to denote his place</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Among the learned. Now the last faint trace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Nap, is all obliterate with age,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Ned’s degree less precious than his wage.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He says: “I done it,” with his every breath.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Thou canst not say I did it,” says Macbeth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Good land! how I run on! I quite forgot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whom this was meant to be about; for when</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I think upon that odd, unearthly lot⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Not quite Creed Haymonds, yet not wholly men⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I’m dominated by my rebel pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That, like the stubborn bird from which ’twas got,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Goes waddling forward if I will or not.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To leave your comrades, Ben, I’m now content:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll meet them later if I don’t repent.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You’ve writ a letter, I observe⁠—nay, more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You’ve published it⁠—to say how good you think</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The coolies, and invite them to come o’er</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In thicker quantity. Perhaps you drink</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No corporation’s wine, but love its ink;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or when you signed away your soul and swore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On railrogue battle-fields to shed your gore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You mentally reserved the right to shed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The raiment of your character instead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You’re naked, anyhow: unragged you stand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In frank and stark simplicity of shame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And here upon your flank, in letters grand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The iron has marked you with your owner’s name⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Needless, for none would steal and none reclaim.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But “£eland $tanford” is a pretty brand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wrought by an artist with a cunning hand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But come⁠—this naked unreserve is flat:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don your habiliment⁠—you’re fat, you’re fat!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-legatee" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Legatee</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In fair San Francisco a good man did dwell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he wrote out a will, for he didn’t feel well.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said he: “It is proper, when making a gift,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To stimulate virtue by comforting thrift.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So he left all his property, legal and straight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To “the cursedest rascal in all of the State.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the name he refused to insert, for, said he:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Let each man consider himself legatee.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In due course of time that philanthropist died,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all San Francisco, and Oakland beside⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save only the lawyers⁠—came each with his claim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lawyers preferring to manage the same.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The cases were tried in Department Thirteen;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Judge Murphy presided, sedate and serene,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But couldn’t quite specify, legal and straight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cursedest rascal in all of the State.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And so he remarked to them, little and big⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To claimants: “You skip!” and to lawyers: “You dig!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They tumbled, tumultuous, out of his court</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And left him victorious, holding the fort.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Twas then that he said: “It is plain to my mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This property’s ownerless⁠—how can I find</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cursedest rascal in all of the State?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So he took it himself, which was legal and straight.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="died-of-a-rose" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">“Died of a Rose”</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A reporter he was, and he wrote, wrote he:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The grave was covered as thick as could be</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With floral tributes”⁠—which reading,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The editor man he said, he did so:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“For ‘floral tributes’ he’s got for to go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For I hold the same misleading.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then he called him in and he pointed sweet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To a blooming garden across the street,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Inquiring: “What’s them a-growing?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The reporter chap said: “Why, where’s your eyes?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Them’s floral tributes!” “Arise, arise,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The editor said, “and be going.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-literary-hangman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Literary Hangman</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Beneath his coat of dirt great Neilson loves</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To hide the avenging rope.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He handles all he touches without gloves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Excepting soap.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="at-the-eleventh-hour" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">At the Eleventh Hour</h3>
				<p>
					<span>As through the blue expanse he skims</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On joyous wings, the late</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Frank Hutchings overtakes Miss Sims,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Both bound for Heaven’s high gate.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In life they loved and (God knows why</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A lover so should sue)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He slew her, on the gallows high</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Died pious⁠—and they flew.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Her pinions were bedraggled, soiled</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And torn as by a gale,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While his were bright⁠—all freshly oiled</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The feathers of his tail.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Her visage, too, was stained and worn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And menacing and grim;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His sweet and mild⁠—you would have sworn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That <em>she</em> had murdered <em>him</em>.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When they’d arrived before the gate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He said to her: “My dear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis hard once more to separate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But <em>you</em> can’t enter here.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“For you, unluckily, were sent</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So quickly to the grave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You had no notice to repent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor time your soul to save.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“ ’Tis true,” said she, “and I should wail</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In Hell even now, but I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lingered about the county jail</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To see a Christian die.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-controversialist" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Controversialist</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I’ve sometimes wished that Ingersoll were wise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hold his tongue, nor rail against the skies;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For when he’s made a point some pious dunce</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like Bartlett of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Bulletin</i> “replies.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I brandish no iconoclastic fist,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor enter the debate an atheist;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But when they say there is a God I ask</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why Bartlett, then, is suffered to exist.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Even infidels that logic might resent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saying: “There’s no place for his punishment</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That’s worse than earth.” But humbly I submit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he’s himself a hell wherever sent.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mendax" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Mendax</h3>
				<p>
					<span>High Lord of Liars, Senex, unto thee</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let meaner mortals bend the subject knee!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thine is mendacity’s imperial crown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alike by genius, action and renown.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No man, since words could set a cheek aflame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>E’er lied so greatly with so little shame!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O bad old man, must thy remaining years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be passed in leading idiots by their ears⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thine own (which Justice, if she ruled the roast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would fasten to the penitential post)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still wagging sympathetically⁠—hung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the same rocking-bar that bears thy tongue?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thou dog of darkness, dost thou hope to stay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Time’s dread advance till thou hast had thy day?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dost think the Strangler will release his hold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because, forsooth, some fibs remain untold?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No, no⁠—beneath thy multiplying load</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of years thou canst not tarry on the road</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To dabble in the blood thy leaden feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have pressed from bosoms that have ceased to beat.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Tell to thyself whatever lies thou wilt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Catch as thou canst at pennies got by guilt⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Straight down to death this blessed year thou’lt sink,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy life washed out as with a wave of ink.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But if this prophecy be not fulfilled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thou who killest patience be not killed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If age assail in vain and vice attack</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only by folly to be beaten back;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet Nature can this consolation give:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rogues who die not are condemned to live!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-retrospective-bird" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Retrospective Bird</h3>
				<p>
					<span>His caw is a cackle, his eye is dim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he mopes all day on the lowest limb;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not a word says he, but he snaps his bill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And twitches his palsied head, as a quill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ultimate plume of his pride and hope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quits his now featherless nose-o’-the-Pope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leaving that eminence brown and bare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exposed to the Prince of the Power of the Air.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he sits and he thinks: “I’m an old, old man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mateless and chickless, the last of my clan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I’d give the half of the days gone by</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To perch once more on the branches high,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hear my great-grand-daddy’s comical croaks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In authorized versions of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Bulletin</i> jokes.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-oakland-dog" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Oakland Dog</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I lay one happy night in bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dreamed that all the dogs were dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They’d all been taken out and shot⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their bodies strewed each vacant lot.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O’er all the earth, from Berkeley down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To San Leandro’s ancient town,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And out in space as far as Niles⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw their mortal parts in piles.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One stack upreared its ridge so high</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against the azure of the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That some good soul, with pious views,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Put up a steeple and sold pews.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No wagging tail the scene relieved:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I never in my life conceived</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(I swear it on the Decalogue!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such penury of living dog.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The barking and the howling stilled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The snarling with the snarler killed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All nature seemed to hold its breath:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The silence was as deep as death.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>True, candidates were all in roar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On every platform, as before;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And villains, as before, felt free</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To finger the calliope.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>True, the Salvationist by night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And milkman in the early light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lonely flutist and the mill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Performed their functions with a will.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>True, church bells on a Sunday rang</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sick man’s curtain down⁠—the bang</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of trains, contesting for the track,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of the shadow called him back.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>True, cocks, at all unheavenly hours</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crew with excruciating powers;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cats on the woodshed rang and roared;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fat citizens and fog-horns snored.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But this was all too fine for ears</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Accustomed, through the awful years,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the nocturnal monologues</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And day debates of Oakland dogs.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And so the world was silent. Now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What else befell⁠—to whom and how?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i xml:lang="la">Imprimis</i>, then, there were no fleas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And days of worth brought nights of ease.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Men walked about without the dread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of being torn to many a shred,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each fragment holding half a cruse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of hydrophobia’s quickening juice.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They had not to propitiate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some curst kioodle at each gate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But entered one another’s grounds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unscared, and were not fed to hounds.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Women could drive and not a pup</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would lift the horse’s tendons up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And let them go⁠—to interject</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A certain musical effect.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Even children’s ponies went about,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All grave and sober-paced, without</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A bulldog hanging to each nose⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Proud of his fragrance, I suppose.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Dog being dead, Man’s lawless flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Burned out: he granted Woman’s claim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Children’s and those of country, art⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They all took lodgings in his heart.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When memories of his former shame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crimsoned his cheeks with sudden flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He said; “I know my fault too well⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They fawned upon me and I fell.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah! ’twas a lovely world!⁠—no more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I met that indisposing bore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The unseraphic cynogogue⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The man who’s proud to love a dog.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thus in my dream the golden reign</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Reason filled the world again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all mankind confessed her sway,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Walnut Creek to San Jose.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-unfallen-brave" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Unfallen Brave</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Not all in sorrow and in tears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To pay of gratitude’s arrears</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The yearly sum⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not prompted, wholly by the pride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of those for whom their friends have died,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">To-day we come.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Another aim we have in view</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than for the buried boys in blue</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">To drop a tear:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Memorial Day revives the chin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Barnes, and Salomon chimes in⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">That’s why we’re here.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And when in after ages they</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall pass, like mortal men, away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Their war-song sung⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Fame shall tell the tale anew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of how intrepidly they drew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The deadly tongue⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then cull white lilies for the graves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Loyalty’s loquacious braves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">And roses red.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those represent their livers, these</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blood that in unmeasured seas</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">They did not shed.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-celebrated-case" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Celebrated Case</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Way down in the Boom Belt lived <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Roselle;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A person named Petrie, he lived there as well;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Roselle he resided away⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing tooral iooral iooral iay.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Once <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Roselle in her room was alone:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flesh of her flesh and the bone of her bone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Neglected the wife of his bosom to woo⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing tooral iooral iooral ioo.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then Petrie, her lover, appeared at the door,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remarking: “My dear; I don’t love you no more.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“That’s awfully rough,” said the lady, “on me⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing tooral iooral iooral iee.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Come in, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Petrie,” she added, “pray do:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Although you don’t love me no more, I love you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sit down while I spray you with vitriol now⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing tooral iooral iooral iow.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Said Petrie: “That liquid I know won’t agree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With my beauty, and then you’ll no longer love me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So spray and be”⁠—O, what a word he did say!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing tooral iooral iooral iay.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She deluged his head and continued to pour</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till his bonny blue eyes, like his love, were no more.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was seldom he got such a hearty shampoo⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing tooral iooral iooral ioo.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then Petrie he rose and said: “<abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Roselle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have an engagement and bid you farewell.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You see,” she began to explain⁠—but not he!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing tooral iooral iooral iee.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Sheriff he came and he offered his arm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saying, “Sorry I am for disturbin’ you, marm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But business is business.” Said she, “So they say⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing tooral iooral iooral iay.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Judge on the bench he looked awfully stern;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The District Attorney began to attorn;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The witnesses lied and the lawyers⁠—O my!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing tooral iooral iooral iyi.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The chap that defended her said: “It’s our claim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he loved us no longer and told us the same.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What else than we did could we decently do?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing tooral iooral iooral ioo.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The District Attorney, sarcastic, replied:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“We loved you no longer⁠—that can’t be denied.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not having no eyes we may dote on you now⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing tooral iooral iooral iow.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The prisoner wept to entoken her fears;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sockets of Petrie were flooded with tears.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O heaven-born Sympathy, bully for you!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing tooral iooral iooral ioo.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Four jurors considered the prisoner mad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And four thought her victim uncommonly bad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And four that the acid was “all in his eye”⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing rum tiddy iddity iddity hi.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="couplets" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Couplets</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>For Inscription on a Sword Presented to Colonel Cutting of the National Guard.</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>I am for Cutting. I’m a blade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Designed for use at dress parade.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My gleaming length, when I display</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Peace rules the land with gentle sway;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But when the war-dogs bare their teeth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go seek me in the modest sheath.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am for Cutting. Not for me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The task of setting nations free;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let soulless blades take human life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My softer metal shuns the strife.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The annual review is mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When gorgeous shopmen sweat and shine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Biddy, tip-toe on the pave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Adores the cobble-trotting brave.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am for Cutting. ’Tis not mine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hew amain the hostile line;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not mine all pitiless to spread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The plain with tumuli of dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My grander duty lies afar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From haunts of the insane hussar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where charging horse and struggling foot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are grimed alike with cannon-soot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Loveliness and Valor meet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath the trees to dance, and eat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sing, and much beside, behold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My golden glories all unfold!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There formidably are displayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The useful horrors of my blade.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In time of feast and dance and ballad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am for cutting chicken salad.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-retort" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Retort</h3>
				<p>
					<span>As vicious women think all men are knaves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shrew-bound gentlemen discourse of slaves;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As reeling drunkards judge the world unsteady,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And idlers swear employers ne’er get ready⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thieves that the constable stole all they had,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mad that all except themselves are mad;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, in another’s clear escutcheon shown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Barnes rails at stains reflected from his own;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prates of “docility,” nor feels the dark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ring round his neck⁠—the Ralston collar mark.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Back, man, to studies interrupted once,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere yet the rogue had merged into the dunce⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Back, back to Yale! and, grown with years discreet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The course a virgin’s lust cut short, complete.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go drink again at the Pierian pool,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And learn at least better to play the fool.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No longer scorn the draught, although the font</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unlike Pactolus, waters not Belmont.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-vision-of-resurrection" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Vision of Resurrection</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I had a dream. The habitable earth⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its continents and islands⁠—all was bare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of cities and of forests. Naught remained</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of its old aspect, and I only knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(As men know things in dreams, unknowing how)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That this was earth and that all men were dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On every side I saw the barren land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even to the distant sky’s inclosing blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thick-pitted all with graves; and all the graves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save one were open⁠—not as newly dug,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But rather as by some internal force</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Riven for egress. Tombs of stone were split</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wide agape, and in their iron decay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The massive mausoleums stood in halves.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With mildewed linen all the ground was white.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Discarded shrouds upon memorial stones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hung without motion in the soulless air.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While greatly marveling how this should be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I heard, or fancied that I heard, a voice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Low like an angel’s, delicately strong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sweet as music.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i9">“Spirit,” it said, “behold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The burial place of universal Man!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A million years have rolled away since here</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His sheeted multitudes (save only some</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose dark misdeeds required a separate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And individual arraigning) rose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To judgment at the trumpet’s summoning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And passed into the sky for their award,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leaving behind these perishable things</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which yet, preserved by miracle, endure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till all are up. Then they and all of earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rock-hearted mountain and storm-breasted sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>River and wilderness and sites of dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And vanished capitals of men, shall spring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To flame, and naught shall be for evermore!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When all are risen that wonder will occur.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas but ten centuries ago the last</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But one came forth⁠—a soul so black with sin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against whose name so many crimes were set</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That only now his trial is at end.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But one remains.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i8">Straight, as the voice was stilled⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That single rounded mound cracked lengthliwise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And one came forth in grave-clothes. For a space</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He stood and gazed about him with a smile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Superior; then laying off his shroud</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Disclosed his two attenuated legs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which, like parentheses, bent outwardly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As by the weight of saintliness above,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so sprang upward and was lost to view.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Noting his headstone overthrown, I read:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Sacred to memory of George <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">K.</abbr> Fitch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deacon and Editor⁠—a holy man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who fell asleep in Jesus, full of years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And blessedness. The dead in Christ rise first.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="master-of-three-arts" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Master of Three Arts</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Your various talents, Goldenson, command</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Respect: you are a poet and can draw.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is a pity that your gifted hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Should ever have been raised against the law.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If you had drawn no pistol, but a picture,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You would have saved your throttle from a stricture.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>About your poetry I’m not so sure:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">’Tis certain we have much that’s quite as bad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose hardy writers have not to endure</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The hangman’s fondling. It is said they’re mad:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though lately <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brooks (I mean the poet)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Looked well, and if demented didn’t show it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Well, Goldenson, I am a poet, too⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Taught by the muses how to smite the harp</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lift the tuneful voice, although, like you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Brooks, I sometimes flat and sometimes sharp.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But let me say, with no desire to taunt you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I never murder even the girls I want to.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I hold it one of the poetic laws</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To sing of life, not take it. I have shown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A high regard for human life because</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I have such trouble to support my own.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you⁠—well, you’ll find trouble soon in blowing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your private coal to keep it red and glowing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I fancy now I see you at the Gate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Approach <abbr>St.</abbr> Peter, crawling on your belly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You cry: “Good sir, take pity on my state⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Forgive the murderer of Mamie Kelly!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Peter says: “O, that’s all right⁠—but, mister,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You scribbled rhymes. In Hell I’ll make you blister!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="thersites" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Thersites</h3>
				<p>
					<span>So, in the Sunday papers <em>you</em>, Del Mar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Damn, all great Englishmen in English speech?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I am no Englishman, but in my reach</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A rogue shall never rail where heroes are.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You are the man, if I mistake you not,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Who lately with a supplicating twitch</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Plucked at the pockets of the London rich,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And paid your share-engraver all you got.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Because that you have greatly lied, because</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">You libel nations, and because no hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of officer is raised to bid you stand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And falsehood is unpunished of the laws,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I stand here in a public place to mark</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">With level finger where you part the crowd⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I stand to name you and to cry aloud:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Behold mendacity’s great hierarch!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-society-leader" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Society Leader</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“The Social World”! O what a world it is⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where full-grown men cut capers in the German,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cotillion, waltz, or what you will, and whizz</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And spin and hop and sprawl about like mermen!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I wonder if our future Grant or Sherman,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As these youths pass their time, is passing his⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If eagles ever come from painted eggs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or deeds of arms succeed to deeds of legs.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I know they tell us about Waterloo:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How, “foremost fighting,” fell the evening’s dancers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I don’t believe it: I regard it true</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That soldiers who are skillful in the Lancers</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Less often die of cannon than of cancers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Moreover, I am half-persuaded, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That David when he danced before the Ark</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had the reporter’s word to keep it dark.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ed Greenway, you fatigue. Your hateful name</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like maiden’s curls, is in the papers daily.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You think it, doubtless, honorable fame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And contemplate the cheap distinction gaily,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As does the monkey the blue-painted tail he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Believes becoming to him. ’Tis the same</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With men as other monkeys: all their souls</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Crave eminence on any kind of poles.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But cynics (barking tribe!) are all agreed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That monkeys upon poles performing capers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are not exalted, they are only “treed.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A glory that is kindled by the papers</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is transient as the phosphorescent vapors</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That shine in graveyards and are seen, indeed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But while the bodies that supply the gas</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are turning into weeds to feed an ass.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One can but wonder sometimes how it feels</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To <em>be</em> an ass⁠—a beast we beat condignly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because, like yours, his life is in his heels</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he is prone to use them unbenignly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The ladies (bless them!) say you dance divinely.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I like <abbr>St.</abbr> Vitus better, though, who deals</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His feet about him with a grace more just,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And hops, not for he will, but for he must.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Doubtless it gratifies you to observe</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Elbowy girls and adipose mamas</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All looking adoration as you swerve</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This way and that; but prosperous papas</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Laugh in their sleeves at you, and their ha-has,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If heard, would somewhat agitate your nerve.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And dames and maids who keep you on their shelves</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Don’t seem to want a closer tie themselves.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Gods! what a life you live!⁠—by day a slave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To your exacting back and urgent belly;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Intent to earn and vigilant to save;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By night, attired so sightly and so smelly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With countenance as luminous as jelly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bobbing and bowing! King of hearts and knave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of diamonds, I’d bet a silver brick</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If brains were trumps you’d never take a trick.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="expositor-veritatis" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Expositor Veritatis</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I slept, and, waking in the years to be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Heard voices, and approaching whence they came,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Listened indifferently where a key</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had lately been removed. An ancient dame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said to her daughter: “Go to yonder caddy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And get some emery to scour your daddy.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And then I knew⁠—some intuition said⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That tombs were not and men had cleared their shelves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of urns; and the electro-plated dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Stood pedestaled as statues of themselves.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With famous dead men all the public places</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were thronged, and some in piles awaited bases.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One mighty structure’s high fagade alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Contained a single monumental niche,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where, central in that steep expanse of stone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Gleamed the familiar form of Thomas Fitch.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man cried: “Lo! Truth’s temple and its founder!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then gravely added: “I’m her chief expounder.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-troubadour" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Troubadour</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Professor Gayley, you’re a great man, sure!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They say that you can almost fly!⁠—can spell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And parse, but cannot figure well</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(For mathematics is not literature)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hold⁠—with rancor⁠—that twice two are fewer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Than they’re cracked up to be. Let sinners tell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wherein you disappoint, but I will swell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The chorus of your greatness. I’ll procure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For that exploit a megaphone of brass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And roar your excellences to the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fill with witness all the world! Alas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You can’t write poetry! No more can I,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that, you’ll notice, is another matter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Besides, I’m less ubiloquent, and fatter.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You hold the Chair, so your credentials say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of English Letters. That is well and fine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Through teaching diligently, line by line,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You may yourself have the good luck some day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To learn enough of it to bid you stay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your red right hand from making it. The nine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dear Muses then with laurels will entwine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your brows and leg it lightly to display</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their joy. O bold, bad poet, hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">These words of wisdom (from a grizzled head)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inserted civilly into your ear:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In teaching verse you’ll better earn your bread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And on our feelings less unkindly trample,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If you will work by precept, not example.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Not all the shouting capitals you use</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Can strengthen feebleness, nor all the skill</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You lack conceal the foolish hates that fill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fountain whence the driblet of your views</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flows in a dirty channel to suffuse</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With slime the British Empire! Dip your quill</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In something sweeter and you’ll write less ill⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At least your rant we better can excuse.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No doubt you wish you had been born a Boer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(Spelling excepted, so indeed you were;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A Bore as well) but that’s a very poor</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ambition. By the Lord! I should prefer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be a Briton though they shot me daily</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And threw my body to your hoofs, Jack Gayley.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-finger-on-the-lips" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Finger on the Lips</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O Mike, have ye heard the good news?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They’re gwan to have Home Rule at last;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ a Parlyment fine they will chuse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">An’ wurruk’s a thing o’ the past.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They’ll vote every man an estate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wid all he can drink and ate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Indade it’s the blessedest day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We’ve seen since we landed here</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In America. Whisht! though⁠—I say⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Bedad, it’s no place to cheer!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Home Rule we mustn’t hurroo⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They’ll be wantin’ it here if we do.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="three-highwaymen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Three Highwaymen</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A street contractor, t’other morn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Walked out before the day was born.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The silver moon beyond his reach</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had prudently retired, and each</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fair golden star his clutch that feared</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trembled, grew pale, and disappeared.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sun rose not⁠—afraid to risk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His tempting, double-eagle disk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our hero⁠—why spin out the verse?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two robbers robbed him of his purse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Left him uncomfortably spread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On his own pavement, semi-dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ran away exultant. He</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sang “Murder!” “Fire!” in every key,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until politeness bade him cease</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For fear of waking the police.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then straight unto the Chief, all faint,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He made his way and his complaint:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I met two robber-men,” said he;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“We battled and⁠—well, look at <em>me</em>!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sad citizen, O Chief, you see.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“How much?” asked that sententious man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Well, sir, as nearly as I can</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Compute it, though I gave them fits,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They got away⁠—with my six bits.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Why, damn your avaricious soul!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Chief said: “do you claim the whole?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You did quite well to get, begad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within six bits of all they had!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-colonel-dan-burns" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To “Colonel” Dan Burns</h3>
				<p>
					<span>They say, my lord, that you’re a Warwick. Well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The title’s an absurd one, I believe:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You make no kings, you have no kings to sell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though really ’twere easy to conceive</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You stuffing half-a-dozen up your sleeve.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No, you’re no Warwick, skilful from the shell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hatch out sovereigns. On a mare’s nest, maybe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’d incubate a little jackass baby.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I fancy, too, that it is naught but stuff,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This “power” that you’re said to be “behind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The throne.” I’m sure ’twere accurate enough</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To represent you simply as inclined</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To push poor Markham (ailing in his mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And body, which were never very tough)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Round in an invalid’s wheeled chair. Such menial</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Employment to low natures is congenial.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No, Dan, you’re an impostor every way:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A human bubble, for “the earth,” you know,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Hath bubbles, as the water hath.” Some day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some careless hand will prick your film, and O,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How utterly you’ll vanish! Daniel, throw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(As fallen Woolsey might to Cromwell say)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your curst ambition to the pigs⁠—though truly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twould make them greater pigs, and more unruly.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="george-a-knight" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">George <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A.</abbr> Knight</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Attorney Knight, it happens so sometimes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That lawyers, justifying cut-throats’ crimes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For hire⁠—calumniating, too, for gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dead, dumb victims cruelly unsouled⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Speak, through the press, to a tribunal far</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More honorable than their Honors are⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A court that sits not with assenting smile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While living rogues dead gentleman revile⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A court where scoundrel ethics of your trade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Confuse no judgment and no cheating aid⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Court of Honest Souls, where you in vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May plead your right to falsify for gain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sternly reminded if a man engage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To serve assassins for the liar’s wage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His mouth with vilifying falsehoods crammed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’s twice detestable and doubly damned!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Attorney Knight, defending Powell, you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To earn your fee, so energetic grew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(So like a hound, the pride of all the pack,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clapping your nose upon the dead man’s track</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To run his faults to earth⁠—at least proclaim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At vacant holes the overtaken game)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That men who marked you nourishing the tongue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And saw your arms so vigorously swung,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All marveled how so light a breeze could stir</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So great a windmill to so great a whirr!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Little they knew, or surely they had grinned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mill was laboring to raise the wind.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ralph Smith a “shoulder-striker”! God, O hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This hardy man’s description of thy dear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dead child, the gentlest soul, save only One,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>E’er born in any land beneath the sun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All silent benefactions still he wrought:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>High deed and gracious speech and noble thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kept all thy law, and, seeking still the right,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon his blameless breast received the light.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Avenge, O Lord, Thy slaughtered saints,” one cried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose wrath was deep as his comparison wide⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Milton, Thy servant. Nay, Thy will be done:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To smite or spare⁠—to me it all is one.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can vengeance bring my sorrow to an end,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or justice give me back my buried friend?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But if some Milton vainly now implore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Powell prosper as he did before,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet ’twere too much that, making no ado,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy saints be slaughtered and be slandered too.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, Lord, make Knight his weapon keep in sheath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or do Thou wrest it from between his teeth!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="unarmed" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Unarmed</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Saint Peter sat at the jasper gate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Senator White arrived in state,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Admit me.” “With pleasure,” Peter said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pleased to observe that the man was dead;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“That’s what I’m here for. Kindly show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your ticket, my lord, and in you go.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>White stared in blank surprise. Said he:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I <em>run</em> this place⁠—just turn that key.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Yes?” said the Saint; the Senator heard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With pain the inflection of that word.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But, mastering his emotion, he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remarked: “My friend, you’re too damned free;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I’m Stephen <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">M.</abbr>, by thunder, White!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, “Yes?” the guardian said, with quite</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The self-same irritating stress</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Distinguishing his former yes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And still demurely as a mouse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He twirled the key to that Upper House.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then Stephen, seeing his bluster vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Admittance to those halls to gain,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Said, neighborly: “Pray tell me, Pete,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Does any one contest my seat?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Saint replied: “Nay, nay, not so;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But you voted always wrong below:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Whate’er the question, clear and high</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’re voice rang: ‘<em>I</em>,’ ‘<em>I</em>,’ ever ‘<em>I</em>.’ ”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now indignation fired the heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of that insulted immortal part.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Die, wretch!” he cried, with blanching lip,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made a motion to his hip,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With purpose murderous and hearty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To draw the Democratic party!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He felt his fingers vainly slide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon his unappareled hide</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>(The dead arise from their “silent tents”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But not their late habiliments)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then wailed⁠—the briefest of his speeches:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I’ve left it in my other breeches!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-political-violet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Political Violet</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Come, Stanford, let us sit at ease</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And talk as old friends do.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You talk of anything you please,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And I will talk of you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You recently have said, I hear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That you would like to go</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To serve as Senator. That’s queer!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Have you told William Stow?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Once when the Legislature said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Go, Stanford, and be great!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You lifted up your Jovian head</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And overlooked the State.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As one made leisurely awake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You lightly rubbed your eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And answered: “Thank you⁠—please to make</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A note of my surprise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“But who are they who skulk aside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As to get out of reach,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in their clothing strive to hide</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Three thousand dollars each?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Not members of your body, sure?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No, that can hardly be:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All statesmen, I suppose, are pure.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What! there are rogues? Dear me!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You added, you’ll recall, that though</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You were surprised and pained,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You thought, upon the whole, you’d go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And in that mind remained.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now, what so great a change has wrought</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That you so frankly speak</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of “seeking” honors once unsought</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Because you “scorned to seek”?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Do you not fear the grave reproof</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In good Creed Haymond’s eye?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will Stephen Gage not stand aloof</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And pass you coldly by?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O, fear you not that Vrooman’s litch</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Will rise from earth and point</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At you a scornful finger which</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">May lack, perchance, a joint?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Go, Stanford, where the violets grow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And join their modest train.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Await the work of William Stow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And be surprised again.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-subdued-editor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Subdued Editor</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Pope-eater Pixley set in his den</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A-chewin’ upon his quid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He thought it was Leo Thirteen, and then</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">He bit it intenser, he did.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The amber which overflew from the cud</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Like rivers which burst out of bounds⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas peculiar pleasant to think it blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A-gushin’ from Papal wounds.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A knockin’ was heard uponto the door</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Where some one a-waitin’ was.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Come in,” said the shedder of priestly gore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Arrestin’ to once his jaws.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The person which entered was curly of hair</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And smilin’ as ever you see;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His eyes was blue, and uncommon fair</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Was his physiognomee.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And yet there was some’at remarkable grand⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And the editor says as he looks:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Your Height” (it was Highness, you understand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">That he meant, but he spoke like books)⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Your Height, I am in. I’m the editor man</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of this paper⁠—which is to say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m the owner, too, and it’s always ran</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">In the independentest way!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Not a dam galoot can interfere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A-shapin’ my course for me:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This paper’s (and nothing can make it veer)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Pixleian in policee!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“It’s little to me,” said the sunny youth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">“If journals is better or worse:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where I am to home they won’t keep, in truth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The climate is that perverse.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I’ve come, howsomever, your mind to light</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">With a more superior fire:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’ll have naught hencefor’ard to do but write,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">While I sets by to inspire.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“We’ll make it hot all round, bedad!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And his laughture was loud and free.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The devil!” cried Pixley, surpassin’ mad.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">“Exactly, my friend⁠—that’s me.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So he took a chair and a feather fan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And he sets and sets and sets,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inspirin’ that humbled editor man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Which sweats and sweats and sweats!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All unavailin’ his struggles be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And it’s, O, a weepin’ sight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see a great editor, bold and free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Reducted to sech a plight!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="black-bart-po8" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">“Black Bart, Po8”</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Welcome, good friend; as you have served your term,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And found the joy of crime to be a fiction,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hope you’ll hold your present faith, stand firm</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And not again be open to conviction.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your sins, though scarlet once, are now as wool:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You’ve made atonement for all past offenses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And conjugated⁠—’twas an awful pull!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The verb “to pay” in all its moods and tenses.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You were a dreadful criminal⁠—by Heaven,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I think there never was a man so sinful!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We’ve all a pinch or two of Satan’s leaven,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But you appeared to have an even skinful.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Earth shuddered with aversion at your name;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Rivers fled backward, gravitation scorning;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sea and sky, from thinking on your shame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Grew lobster-red at eve and in the morning.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But still red-handed at your horrid trade</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You wrought, to reason deaf, and to compassion.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But now with gods and men your peace is made</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I beg you to be good and in the fashion.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What’s that?⁠—you “ne’er again will rob a stage”?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What! did you do so? Faith, I didn’t know it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was <em>that</em> what threw poor Themis in a rage?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I thought you were convicted as a poet!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I own it was a comfort to my soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And soothed it better than the deepest curses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To think they’d put one poet in a hole</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where, though he wrote, he could not print his verses.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I thought that Welcker, Stuart, Brooks and all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The ghastly crew who always are begriming</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With villain couplets every page and wall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Might be arrested and “run in” for rhyming.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And then Parnassus would be left to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Pegasus should bear me up it gaily,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor down a steep place run into the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As now he must be tempted to do daily.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Well, grab the lyre-strings, hearties, and begin:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Bawl your harsh souls all out upon the gravel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I must endure you, for you’ll never sin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By robbing coaches, until dead men travel.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-scion-of-nobility" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A “Scion of Nobility”</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Come, sisters, weep!⁠—our Baron dear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Alas! has run away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If always we had kept him here</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He had not gone astray.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Painter and grainer it were vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To say he was, before;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And if he were, yet ne’er again</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He’ll darken here a door.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We mourn each matrimonial plan⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Even tradesmen join the cry:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was so promising a man</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whenever he did buy.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He was a fascinating lad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Deny it all who may;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even “moneyed” men confess he had</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A very taking way.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So from our tables he is gone⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our tears descend in showers;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We loved the very fat upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His kidneys, for ’twas ours.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To women he was all respect</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To duns as cold as ice;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No lady could his suit reject,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No tailor get its price.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He raised our hope above the sky;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Alas! alack! and O!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That one who worked it up so high</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Should play it down so slow.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-night-of-election" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Night of Election</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“O venerable patriot, I pray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stand not here coatless; at the break of day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We’ll know the grand result⁠—and even now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The eastern sky is faintly touched with gray.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“It ill befits thine age’s hoary crown⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This rude environment of rogue and clown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who, as the lying bulletins appear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With drunken cries incarnadine the town.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“But if with noble zeal you stay to note</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The outcome of your patriotic vote</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For Blaine, or Cleveland, and your native land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Take⁠—and God bless you!⁠—take my overcoat.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Done, pard⁠—it’s mighty white of you. And now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I guess the country’ll keep the trail somehow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I aint allowed to vote, the Warden said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But whacked my coat up on old Stanislow.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-convicts-ball" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Convicts’ Ball</h3>
				<p>
					<span>San Quentin was brilliant. Within the halls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the noble pile with the frowning walls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(God knows they’ve enough to make them frown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a Governor trying to break them down!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was a blaze of light. ’Twas the natal day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of his nibs the popular John <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">S.</abbr> Gray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The ball is free!” cried Black Bart, and they all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said a ball with no chain was a novel ball;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“And I never have seed,” said Jimmy Hope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Sech a lightsome dance withouten a rope.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chinamen, Indians, Portuguese, Blacks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Russians, Italians, Kanucks and Kanaks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chilenos, Peruvians, Mexicans⁠—all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Greased with their presence that notable ball.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>None were excluded excepting, perhaps,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Morrison’s churchly chaps,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whom, to prevent a religious debate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Warden had banished outside of the gate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fiddler, fiddling his hardest the while,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Called off” in the regular foot-hill style:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Circle to the left!” and “Forward and back!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And “Hellum to port for the stabbard tack!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(This great <i xml:lang="it">virtuoso</i>, it would appear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was Mate of the <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">Gatherer</i> many a year.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“<i xml:lang="und">Ally man</i> left!”⁠—to a painful degree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His French was unlike to the French of Paree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As heard from our countrymen lately abroad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his “<i xml:lang="und">doe cee doe</i>” was the gem of the fraud.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But what can you hope from a gentleman barred</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From circles of culture by dogs in the yard?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas a glorious dance, though, all the same:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Jardin Mabille in the days of its fame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never saw legs perform such springs⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cold-chisel’s magic had given them wings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They footed it featly, those lades and gents:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dull care (said Long Moll) had a helly go-hence!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Twas a very aristocratic affair:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The <i xml:lang="fr">crême de la crême</i> of the place was there⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The swells and belles of our toughest sets,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Hubert Howe Bancroft sent his regrets.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-prayer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Prayer</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Sweet Spirit of Cesspool, hear a mother’s prayer:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her terrors pacify and offspring spare!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon Silurians alone let fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(And God in Heaven have mercy on them all!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The red revenges of your fragrant breath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hot with the flames invisible of death.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing in each nose a melody of smells,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lead them snoutwise to their several hells!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-one-detested" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To One Detested</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Sir, you’re a veteran, revealed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In history and fable</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As warrior since you took the field,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Defeating Abel.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As Commissary later (or</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If not, in every cottage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tale is) you contracted for</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A mess of pottage.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In civil life you were, we read</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(And our respect increases)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man of peace⁠—a man, indeed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of thirty pieces.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To paying taxes when you turned</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your mind, or what you call so,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A wide celebrity you earned⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Sapphira also.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In every age, by various names,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You’ve won renown in story,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But on your present record flames</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A greater glory.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Cain, Esau, and Iscariot too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Ananias, likewise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each had peculiar powers, but who</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Could lie as Mike lies?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-bosss-choice" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Boss’s Choice</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Listen to his wild romances:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He advances foolish fancies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each expounded as his “view”⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i8">
						<abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:given-name">Gu.</abbr>
					</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In his brain’s opacous clot, ah</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He has got a maggot! What a</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Man with “views” to overwhelm us!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i5">Gulielmus.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hear his demagogic clamor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hear him stammer in his grammar!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See him laboring to spell⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Gulielmus <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">L.</abbr></span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Slave who paid the price demanded⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With two-handed iron branded</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the boss⁠—pray cease to dose us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gulielmus <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">L.</abbr> Jocosus.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-merciful-governor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Merciful Governor</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Standing within the triple wall of Hell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And flattening his nose against a grate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behind whose brazen bars he’d had to dwell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A thousand million ages to that date,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Stoneman bewailed his melancholy fate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his big tear-drops, boiling as they fell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had worn between his feet, the record mentions,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A deep depression in the “good intentions.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Imperfectly by memory taught how⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For prayer in Hell is a lost art⁠—he prayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Uplifting his incinerated brow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And flaming hands in supplication’s aid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“O grant,” he cried, “my torment may be stayed⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In mercy, some short breathing spell allow!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If one good deed I did before my ghosting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spare me and give Delmas a double roasting.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Breathing a holy harmony in Hell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Down through the appalling clamors of the place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Charming them all to willing concord, fell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A Voice ineffable and full of grace:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Because of all the law-defying race</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One single malefactor of the cell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou didst deny a pardon, thy petition</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gains thee ten thousand years of intermission.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Back from their fastenings began to shoot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The rusted bolts; with dreadful roar, the gate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Laboriously turned; and, black with soot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The extinguished spirit passed that awful strait,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And as he legged it into space, elate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Muttered: “Yes, I remember that galoot⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’d signed his pardon, ready to allot it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But stuck it in my desk and quite forgot it.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-interpretation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Interpretation</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Now Lonergan appears upon the boards,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Truth and Error sheathe their lingual swords.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No more in wordy warfare to engage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The commentators bow before the stage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bookworms, militant for ages past,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Confess their equal foolishness at last,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Re-read their Shakspeare in the newer light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And swear the meaning’s obvious to sight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For centuries the question has been hot:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was Hamlet crazy, or was Hamlet not?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now, Lonergan’s illuminating art</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reveals the truth of the disputed “part,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shows to all the critics of the earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Hamlet was an idiot from birth!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-soaring-toad" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Soaring Toad</h3>
				<p>
					<span>So, Waterman, you would not serve again</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Although we’d all agree to pay you double.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You find it all is vanity and pain⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">One clump of clover in a field of stubble⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">One grain of pleasure in a peck of trouble.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis sad, at your age, having to complain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of disillusion; but the fault is whose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When pigmies stumble, wearing giants’ shoes?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I humbly told you many moons ago</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For high preferment you were all unfit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A clumsy bear makes but a sorry show</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Climbing a pole. Let him, judicious, sit</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With dignity at bottom of his pit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And none his awkwardness will ever know.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some beasts look better, and feel better, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seen from above; and so, I think, would you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Why, you were mad! Did you suppose because</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our foolish system suffers foolish men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To climb to power, make, enforce the laws,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And, it is whispered, break them now and then,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We love the fellows and respect them when</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We’ve stilled the volume of our loud hurrahs?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When folly blooms we trample it the more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For having cultivated it before.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Behold yon laborer! His garb is mean,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His face is grimy, but who thinks to ask</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The measure of his brains? ’Tis only seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He’s fitted for his honorable task,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And so delights the mind. But let him bask</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In droll prosperity, absurdly clean⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is that the man whom we admired before?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Good Lord, how ignorant, and what a bore!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Better for you that thoughtless men had said</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(Noting your fitness in the humbler sphere):</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Why don’t they make him Governor?” instead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of, “Why the devil did they?” But I fear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My words on your inhospitable ear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are wasted like a sermon to the dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still, they may profit you if studied well:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You can’t be taught to think, but may to spell.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-undress-uniform" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Undress Uniform</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The apparel does <em>not</em> proclaim the man⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Polonius lied like a partisan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Salomon still would a hero seem</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If (Heaven dispel the impossible dream!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He stood in a shroud on the hangman’s trap,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His eye burning holes in the black, black cap.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the crowd below would exclaim amain:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“He’s ready to fall for his country again!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-perverted-village" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">The Perverted Village</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>
							<b>after goldsmith</b>
						</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Sweet Auburn! liveliest village of the plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where Health and Slander welcome every train,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whence smiling innocence, its tribute paid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Retires in terror, wounded and dismayed⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear lovely bowers of gossip and disease,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose climate cures us that thy dames may tease,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How often have I knelt upon thy green</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And prayed for death, to mitigate their spleen!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How often have I paused on every charm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With mingled admiration and alarm⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The brook that runs by many a scandal-mill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The church whose pastor groans upon the grill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cowthorn bush with seats beneath the shade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where hearts are struck and reputations flayed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How often wished thine idle wives, some day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Might more at whist, less at the devil, play.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Unblest retirement! ere my life’s decline</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Killed by detraction) may I witness thine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How happy she who, shunning shades like these,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Finds in a wolf-den greater peace and ease;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who quits the place whence truth did earlier fly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rather than come back prefers to die!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For her no jealous maids renounce their sleep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Contriving malices to make her weep;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No iron-faced dames her character debate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And spurn imploring mercy from the gate;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But down she lies to a more peaceful end,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For wolves do not calumniate, but rend⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sinks piecemeal to their maws, a willing prey,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While resignation lubricates the way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all her prospects brighten at the last:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To wolves, not women, an approved repast.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span><i>1884</i>.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mr-sheets" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title"><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Sheets</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Devil stood before the gate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Heaven. He had a single mate:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behind him, in his shadow, slunk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clay Sheets in a perspiring funk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Saint Peter, see this season ticket,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said Satan; “pray undo the wicket.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sleepy Saint threw slight regard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the proffered bit of card,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Signed by some sacerdotal cheats:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Admit the bearer and Clay Sheets.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Peter expanded all his eyes:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“ ‘Clay Sheets?’⁠—well, I’ll be damned!” he cries.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Our couches are of golden cloud;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nothing of earth is here allowed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll let you in,” he added, shedding</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On Nick a smile⁠—“but not your bedding.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-jack-at-all-views" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Jack-at-All-Views</h3>
				<p>
					<span>So, Estee, you are still alive! I thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That you had died and were a blessed ghost.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know at least your coffin once was bought</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With Railroad money; and ’twas said by most</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Historians that Stanford made a boast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The seller “threw you in.” That goes for naught⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Man takes delight in fancy’s fine inventions,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And woman too, ’tis said, if they are French ones.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Do you remember, Estee⁠—ah, ’twas long</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And long ago!⁠—how fierce you grew and hot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When anything impeded the straight, strong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wild sweep of the great billow you had got</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Atop of, like a swimmer bold? Great Scott!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How fine your wavemanship! How loud your song</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of “Down with railroads!” When the wave subsided</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And left you stranded you were much divided.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then for a time you were content to wade</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The waters of the “robber barons’ ” moat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fetch, and carry was your humble trade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And ferry Stanford over in a boat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Well paid if he bestowed the kindly groat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And spoke you fair and called you pretty maid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when his stomach seemed a bit unsteady</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You got your serviceable basin ready.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Strange man! how odd to see you, smug and spruce,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">There at Chicago, burrowed in a Chair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not made to measure and a deal too loose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And see you lift your little arm and swear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Democracy shall be no more! If it’s a fair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And civil question, and not too abstruse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were you elected as a “robber baron,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or as a Communist whose teeth had hair on?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="my-lord-poet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">My Lord Poet</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“Who drives fat oxen should himself be fat;”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who sings for nobles, he should noble be.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There’s no <i xml:lang="la">non sequitur</i>, I think, in that,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And this is logic plain as a, b, c.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now, Hector Stuart, you’re a Scottish prince,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If right you fathom your descent⁠—that fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From grace; and since you have no peers, and since</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You have no kind of nobleness at all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twere better to sing little, lest you wince</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When made by heartless critics to sing small.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet, my liege, I bid you not despair⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ambition conquers but a realm at once:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For European bays arrange your hair⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Two continents, in time, shall crown you Dunce!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-the-fool-killer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To the Fool-Killer</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, welcome, welcome! Sit you down, old friend:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your pipe I’ll serve, your bottle I’ll attend.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis many a year since you and I have known</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Society more pleasant than our own</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In our brief respites from excessive work⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I pointing out the hearts for you to dirk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What have you done since lately at this board</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We canvassed the deserts of all the horde,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And chose what names would please the people best,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Engraved on coffin-plates⁠—what bounding breast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would give more satisfaction if at rest?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But never mind⁠—the record cannot fail:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The loftiest monuments will tell the tale.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I trust ere next we meet you’ll slay the chap</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who calls old Tyler “Judge” and Merry “Cap”⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Calls John <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P.</abbr> Irish “Colonel” and John <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P.</abbr>,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose surname Jack-son speaks his pedigree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the same title⁠—men of equal rank</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though one is belly all, and one all shank,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Showing their several service in the fray:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One fought for food and one to get away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hope, I say, you’ll kill the “title” man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who saddles one on every back he can,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then rides it from Beërsheba to Dan!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Another fool, I trust, you will perform</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your office on while my resentment’s warm:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He shakes my hand a dozen times a day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If, luckless, I so often cross his way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though I’ve three senses besides that of touch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make me conscious of a fool too much.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seek him, friend Killer, and your purpose make</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Apparent as his guilty hand you take,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And set him trembling with a solemn: “Shake!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But chief of all the addle-witted crew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Conceded by the Hangman’s League to you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fool (his dam’s acquainted with a knave)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose fluent pen, of his no-brain the slave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strews notes of introduction o’er the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And calls it hospitality. His hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May palsy seize ere he again consign</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To me his friend, as I to Hades mine!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pity the wretch, his faults howe’er you see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whom A accredits to his victim, B.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like shuttlecock which battledores attack</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(One speeds it forward, one would drive it back)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The trustful simpleton is twice unblest⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A rare good riddance, an unwelcome guest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The glad consignor rubs his hands to think</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How duty is commuted into ink;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The consignee (his hands he cannot rub⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He has the man upon them) mutters: “Cub!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And straightway plans to lose him at the club.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You know, good Killer, where this dunce abides⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The secret jungle where he writes and hides⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though no exploring foot has e’er upstirred</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His human elephant’s exhaustless herd.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go, bring his blood! We’ll drink it⁠—letting fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A due libation to the gods of Gall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On second thought, the gods may have it all.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="one-and-one-are-two" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">One and One Are Two</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The trumpet sounded and the dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Came forth from earth and ocean,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Pickering arose and sped</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Aloft with wobbling motion.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“What makes him fly lop-sided?” cried</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A soul of the elected.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“One ear was wax,” a rogue replied,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“And isn’t resurrected.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Below him on the pitted plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By his abandoned hollow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His hair and teeth tried all in vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The rest of him to follow.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Saint Peter, seeing him ascend,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Came forward to the wicket,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And said: “My mutilated friend,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I’ll thank you for your ticket.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“The <em>Call</em>,” said Pickering, his hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To reach the latch extended.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said Peter, affable and bland:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“The free-list is suspended⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“What claim have you that’s valid here?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That ancient vilifier</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reflected; then, with look austere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Replied: “I am a liar.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Said Peter: “That is simple, neat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And candid Anglo-Saxon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But⁠—well, come in, and take a seat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Up there by Colonel Jackson.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="montague-leverson" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Montague Leverson</h3>
				<p>
					<span>As some enormous violet that towers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Colossal o’er the heads of lowlier flowers⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its giant petals royally displayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And casting half the landscape into shade;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Delivering its odors, like the blows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of some strong slugger, at the public nose;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pride of two Nations⁠—for a single State</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would scarce suffice to sprout a plant so great;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So Leverson’s humility, outgrown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The meaner virtues that he deigns to own,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the high skies its great corolla rears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the benign sufflation of his cheers.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-woful-tale-of-mr-peters" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Woful Tale of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Peters</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I should like, good friends, to mention the disaster that befell</span>
					<br/>
					<span><abbr>Mr.</abbr> William Perry Peters, of the town of Muscatel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose fate is full of meaning if correctly understood⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Admonition to the haughty, consolation to the good.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It happened in the hot snap which we recently incurred,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When ’twas warm enough to carbonize the feathers of a bird,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And men exclaimed: “By Hunky!” who were bad enough to swear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pious persons supervised their adjectives with care.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Peters was a pedagogue of honor and repute,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His learning comprehensive, multifarious, minute.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was commonly conceded in the section whence he came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the man who played against him needed knowledge of the game.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And some there were who whispered, in the town of Muscatel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That besides the game of Draw he knew Orthography as well;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though, the school directors, frigidly contemning that as stuff,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thought that Draw (and maybe Spelling, if he had it) was enough.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Withal, he was a haughty man⁠—indubitably great,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But too vain of his attainments and his power in debate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His mien was contumelious to men of lesser gift:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“It’s only <em>me</em>,” he said, “can give the human mind a lift.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Before a proper audience, if ever I’ve a chance,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’ll see me chipping in, the cause of Learning to advance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just let me have a decent chance to back my mental hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I’ll come to center lightly in a way they’ll understand.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Such was William Perry Peters, and I feel a poignant sense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of grief that I’m unable to employ the present tense;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But Providence disposes, be our scheming what it may,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And disposed of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Peters in a cold, regardless way.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It occurred in San Francisco, whither <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Peters came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the cause of Education, feeling still the holy flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of ambition to assist in lifting up the human mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To a higher plane of knowledge than its Architect designed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He attended the convention of the pedagogic host;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was first in the Pavilion, he was last to leave his post.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For days and days he narrowly observed the Chairman’s eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His efforts ineffectual to catch it on the fly.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The blessed moment came at last: the Chairman tipped his head;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The gentleman from ah⁠—um⁠—er,” that functionary said.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gentleman from ah⁠—um⁠—er reflected with a grin;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“They’ll know me better by-and-by, when I’m a-chipping in.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So William Perry Peters mounted cheerfully his feet⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And straightway was aglow with an incalculable heat!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His face was as effulgent as a human face could be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And caloric emanated from his whole periphery;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For he felt himself the focus of non-Muscatelish eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the pain of their convergence was a terror and surprise!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As with pitiless appulsion all their heat-waves on him broke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was seen to be evolving awful quantities of smoke!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Put him out!” cried all in chorus; but the meaning wasn’t clear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of that succoring suggestion to his obfuscated ear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And it notably augmented his incinerating glow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To regard himself excessive, or in any way <i xml:lang="fr">de trop</i>.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Gone was all his wild ambition to lift up the human mind!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gone the words he would have uttered!⁠—gone the thought that lay behind!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For “words that burn” may be consumed in a superior flame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And “thoughts that breathe” may breathe their last, and die a death of shame.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He’d known himself a shining light, but never had he known</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Himself so very luminous as now he knew he shone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“A pillar, I, of fire,” he’d said, “to guide my race will be;”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now that very inconvenient thing to him was he.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He stood there all irresolute; the seconds went and came;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The minutes passed and did but add fresh fuel to his flame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How long he stood he knew not⁠—’twas a century or more⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then that incandescent man levanted for the door!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He darted like a comet from the building to the street,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where Fahrenheit attested ninety-five degrees of heat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vicissitudes of climate make the tenure of the breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Precarious, and William Perry Peters froze to death!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="twin-unworthies" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Twin Unworthies</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Ye parasites that to the rich men stick,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As to the fattest sheep the thrifty tick⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ed’ard to Stanford and to Crocker, Ben</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(To Ben and Ed’ard many meaner men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lice to these)⁠—who do the kind of work</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That thieves would have the honesty to shirk⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose wages are that your employers own</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fat that reeks upon your every bone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And deign to ask (the flattery how sweet!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About its health and how it stands the heat⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hail and farewell! I meant to write about you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, no, my page is cleaner far without you.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="art-2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Art</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Lo! tooth and nail my countrymen contest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which portrait of Columbus is the best.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Considering that the pirate never “sat,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That is as like as this, and this as that.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We want a face that shows, by all the rules,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A prophecy of ninety million fools.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-war-cry" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A War Cry</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Charles Shortridge, with his martial mouth in place</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At his own ear, shouts dreadful!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pale horrors shudder through eternal space⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of which he has a headful.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-dissuasion" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">In Dissuasion</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Dan Burns, you’d be a Senator, I hear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Senators are persons of much note.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I cannot choose but think it very queer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That you solicit for the place a vote.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Why, don’t you know you’ll have to ride the goat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be skyward from a shaken blanket hurled</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And put in session on a heated chair</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Till your immortal part is more than rare⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your foretaste of another, warmer world?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">’Tis said that all ambitious louts who dare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Aspire to Senatorial fame receive it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In some such fashion, though I don’t believe it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Still, you’ll suppose that this has all occurred.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If in that Upper House you e’er arise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trembly and hot, to speak your maiden word⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Walls, desks, floor, ceiling to your failing eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Seeming to blend, and Senators like flies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To spin about in space! Rash man, forbear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To cherish your accurst ambition! Sir,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your breeding and your character confer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Small right to breathe in that expanded air.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For toads to perch with eagles is to err.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pray Heaven to send contentment with your station</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bar you from the hauls of legislation.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The toga, if you win it, scarce will serve</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To cover up the stripes (where are the stars?)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which to a fertile fancy seem to curve</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Round you like shadows of the prison bars.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Embezzlement, I’m told, exists in Mars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where sometimes an official will “convey”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And in “the shadow of the jail” abide</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Till it seems photographed upon his hide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shapes his gait, as if he dragged alway</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A ball-and-chain. Upon the Moon’s far side</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dwells such a man, who knows not (goes the story)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which of the saints he is when out for glory.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-prediction" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Prediction</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When the skies are green with clover,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the cows are flying over;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the roses lose their fragrance;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the ants are shiftless vagrants;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the peacocks pluck their tails,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the lion pares his nails;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When old ocean’s roaring ridges</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Roll beneath iridium bridges;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When diseases and physicians</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quarrel; when the politicians</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go to work; when lawyers never</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fib no more again forever;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When we gather ice to burn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to eggs potatoes turn;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the pie-distended sleeper</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the nightmare keeps his peeper.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quick to round her up and mount her,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Field and Terry will “encounter.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When the whales, in battle order,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>March across our northern border;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the serpent of the sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is no longer known to be;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the cats intone in Latin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the lady ape wears satin;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the vulture, Mortgage, perches</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nevermore upon the churches;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the sycophant despises</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arts by which the bird-louse rises</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Comfortably to the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the smithy-haunting fly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sitting on the swelling bellows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is no prouder than his fellows;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the mocking-bird eschews</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All of his assenting views.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor proclaims them out of season;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the poets learn to reason;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When lieutenants damn the bullets</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Penetrating captains’ gullets,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a major feels the pain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of his colonel’s shattered brain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the best of human creatures</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is the most austere of preachers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the woman who’s demurest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is the truest and the purest;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the Mississippi, yearning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For its native hills and turning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deftly backward in its bed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lays its mouth against its head;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the turtle-doves are cruel⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Field and Terry’ll fight a duel.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="another-plan" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Another Plan</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Editor Owen, of San Jose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Commonly known as “our friend <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">J. J.</abbr>,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Weary of scribbling for daily bread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Weary of writing what nobody read,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slept one day at his desk and dreamed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That an angel before him stood and beamed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With compassionate eyes upon him there.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Editor Owen is not so fair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In feature, expression, form or limb</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But glances like that are familiar to him;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so, to arrive by the shortest route</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At his visitor’s will he said simply: “Toot.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Editor Owen,” the angel said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Scribble no more for your daily bread.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your intellect staggers and falls and bleeds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Weary of writing what nobody reads.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eschew now the quill⁠—in the coming years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Homilize man through his idle ears.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go lecture!” “Just what I intended to do,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said Owen. The angel looked pained and flew.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Editor Owen, of San Jose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Commonly known as “our friend <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">J. J.</abbr>,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scribbling no more to supply his needs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Weary of writing what nobody reads.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Passes of life each golden year</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Speaking what nobody comes to hear.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-political-apostate" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Political Apostate</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Good friend, it is with deep regret I note</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The latest, strangest turning of your coat;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though any way you wear that mental clout</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The seamy side seems always to be out.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who could have thought that you would e’er sustain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Southern shotgun’s arbitrary reign?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your sturdy hand assisting to replace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The broken yoke on a delivered race;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ballot’s purity no more your care,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With equal privilege to dark and fair.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Yesterday a traitor, to To-day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’re constant but the better to betray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To-morrow. Your convictions all are naught</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the wild asses of the world of thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which, flying mindless o’er the barren plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perceive at last they’ve nothing so to gain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, turning penitent upon their track,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Economize their strength by flying back.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ex-champion of Freedom, battle-lunged,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No more, red-handed, or at least red-tongued,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brandish the javelin which by others thrown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clove Sambo’s heart to quiver in your own!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Confess no more that when his blood was shed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you so sympathetically bled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bow that spanned the mutual cascade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was but the promise of a roaring trade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In offices. Your fingering now the trigger</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shows that you <em>knew</em> your Negro was a nigger!</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i xml:lang="la">Ad hominem</i> this <i xml:lang="la">argumentum</i> runs:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Peace!⁠—let us fire another kind of guns.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I grant you, friend, that it is very true</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Blacks are ignorant⁠—and sable, too.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What then? One way of two a fool must vote,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And either way with gentlemen of note</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose villain feuds the fact attest too well</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That pedagogues nor vice nor error quell.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fiercest controversies ever rage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Miltons and Salmasii engage.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No project wide attention ever drew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But it disparted all the learned crew.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As through their group the cleaving line’s prolonged</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With fiery combatants each field is thronged;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In battle-royal they engage at once</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For guidance of the hesitating dunce.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Titans on the heights contend full soon⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On this side Webster and on that Calhoun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The monstrous conflagration of their fight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Startling the day and splendoring the night!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Both are unconquerable⁠—<em>one</em> is right.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will’t keep the pigmy, if we make him strong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From siding with a giant in the wrong?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Genius strikes for error, who’s afraid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To arm poor Folly with a wooden blade?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Rabelais, you knew it all!⁠—your good</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And honest judge (by men misunderstood)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knew to be right there was but one device</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Less fallible than intellect⁠—the dice.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The time must come⁠—Heaven expedite the day!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When all mankind shall their decrees obey,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And nations prosper in their peaceful sway.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="tinker-dick" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Tinker Dick</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Good Parson Dickson preached, I’m told,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A sermon⁠—ah, ’twas very old</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And very, very, bald!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas all about⁠—I know not what</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was about, nor what ’twas not.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“A Screw Loose” it was called.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Whatever, Parson Dick, you say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The world will get each blessed day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Still more and more askew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fall apart at last. Great snakes!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What skillful tinker ever takes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His tongue to turn a screw?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-peaceful-community" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Peaceful Community</h3>
				<p>
					<span>With lifted hands, Lone Mountain’s giant cross</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Stands in the sky against the Western splendor!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(A ship beyond is playing pitch-and-toss;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She hugs⁠—ships all are feminine in gender⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shore, then fickly turns away to find</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Another shore to suit her altered mind.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>About the foot of that tall rood are spread</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The simple mound and pompous mausoleum⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Three several republics of the dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whose citizens love peace. You’ll never see ’em</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Assail a street-car passenger with stones,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor brain a woman with their marrow bones.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Not even in Potter’s Field the pauper crew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">E’er go on strike to get a fair division</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of monumental fame. (If they but knew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Their barren paddock is a Field Elysian,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Compared with many an historic place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where royal odors leg it into space.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The dead intimidate no Sandlot Judge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor was it ever their besetting sin to</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scare burly Sheriffs. Faith! I’d not begrudge</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That cross the necks if it were fashioned into</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A double gibbet, on one arm to bear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A rioter, on t’other one a Mayor.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Long live the dead! Since they prefer to live</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Within the law, it is a monstrous pity</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That early legislation did not give</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1"><em>Them</em> the authority to rule this city.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here’s to their health! and may their tribe increase⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Recruited from the Judges and Police.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="with-a-book" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">With a Book</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Words shouting, singing, smiling, frowning⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Sense lacking.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, nothing, more obscure than Browning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Save blacking.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-competitor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Competitor</h3>
				<p>
					<span><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Frona Eunice Wait,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My legs are not so very straight;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My spine, I’m sorry to observe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Maintains a most rebellious curve;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My neck is skinny, and my bust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would justify a husband’s trust.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But papa thinks his Mary Ann</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is built upon a gorgeous plan.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Frona Eunice Wait,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I take the liberty to state</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Venuses would go on strike</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If ordered to be all alike;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For some are made for this, and some</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For that⁠—you take ’em as they come.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But papa says: “My Mary Ann</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knocks out the whole damn caravan!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Frona Eunice Wait,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They think in Greaserville I’m great⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They say in Greaserville: “You bet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She’ll make them hens get up and get!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She’s just a bird!” So when I clout</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Myself in cheese-cloth you look out!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For papa says: “My Mary Ann</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has win whenever she has ran.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Frona Eunice Wait,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m giving you the business straight:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Make any standards that you please</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath my cloth I’m just the cheese.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I care not what the artists say⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m in it and I’m in to stay.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For papa says: “If Mary Ann</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will advertise she’ll get a man.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Frona Eunice Wait,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Head Venus-herder of the State,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Round up your girls. But Frona, dear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I think it very, very queer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That you yourself do not compete.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are you too plump or too petite?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My papa says: “Why, Mary Ann,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She’s from Beërsheba to Dan!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="generosity" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Generosity</h3>
				<p>
					<span>By seven brave poems the Mikado shows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His royal fitness for the field of prose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of bold, bad bards to crown him brother-chief</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dick Watson Gilder spares one laurel leaf.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="bats-in-sunshine" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Bats in Sunshine</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Well, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Kemble, you are called, I think,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A great divine, and I’m a great profane.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You as a Congregationalist blink</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some certain truths that I esteem a gain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And drop them in the coffers of my brain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pleased with the pretty music of their chink.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perhaps your spiritual wealth is such</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A golden truth or two don’t count for much.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You say that you’ve no patience with such stuff</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As by Rénan is writ, and when you read</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Why do you read?) have hardly strength enough</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To hold your hand from flinging the vile screed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Into the fire. That were a wasteful deed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which you’d repent in sackcloth extra rough;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For books cost money, and I’m told you care</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To lay up treasures Here as well as There.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I fear, good, pious soul, that you mistake</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your thrift for toleration. Never mind:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rénan in any case would hardly break</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His great, strong, charitable heart to find</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The bats and owls of your myopic kind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pained by the light that his ideas make.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis Truth’s best purpose to shine in at holes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where cower the Kembles, to confound their souls!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-word-to-the-unwise" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">A Word to the Unwise</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>Charles Main, of the firm of Main &amp; Winchester, has ordered a grand mausoleum for his plot in Mountain View Cemetery.</p>
						<cite>City Newspaper</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Charles Main, of Main &amp; Winchester, attend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With friendly ear the chit-chat of a friend</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who knows you not, yet knows that you and he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Travel two roads that have a common end.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We journey forward through the time allowed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I humbly bending, you erect and proud.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our heads alike will stable soon the worm⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The one that’s lifted, and the one that’s bowed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You in your mausoleum shall repose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I where it pleases Him who sleep bestows;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What matter whether one so little worth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall stain the marble or shall feed the rose?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Charles Main, I had a friend who died one day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A metal casket held his honored clay.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of cyclopean architecture stood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The splendid vault where he was laid away.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A dozen years, and lo! the roots of grass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had burst asunder all the joints; the brass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The gilded ornaments, the carven stones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lay tumbled all together in a mass.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A dozen years! That taxes your belief.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Make it a thousand if the time’s too brief.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">’Twill be the same to you; when you are dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You cannot even count your days of grief.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Suppose a pompous monument you raise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till on its peak the solar splendor blaze</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">While yet about its base the night is black;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But will it give your glory length of days?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Say, when beneath your rubbish has been thrown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some rogue to reputation all unknown⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Men’s backs being turned⁠—should lift his thieving hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Efface your name and substitute his own,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Whose then would be the monument? To whom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would be the fame? Forgotten in your gloom⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your very name forgotten⁠—ah, my friend,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The name is all that’s rescued by the tomb.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For memory of worth and work we go</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To other records than a stone can show.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">These lacking, naught remains; with these</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stone is needless for the world will know.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then build your mausoleum if you must,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And creep into it with a perfect trust;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But in the twinkling of an eye the plow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall pass without obstruction through your dust.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Another movement of the pendulum,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, low! the desert-haunting wolf shall come,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And, seated on the spot, shall howl by night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O’er rotting cities, desolate and dumb.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-the-platform" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">On the Platform</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Bill Bartlett stepped out of the hum</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Mammon’s distracting and wearisome strife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To stand and deliver a lecture on “Some</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Conditions of Intellectual Life,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I cursed the offender who gave him the hall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To lecture on any conditions at all!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But he rose with a fire divine in his eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Haranguing with endless abundance of breath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till I slept; and I dreamed of a gibbet reared high,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Bill Bartlett was dressing for death.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I thought in my dream: “These conditions, no doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are bad for the life he was talking about.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So I cried (pray remember this all was a dream):</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Get off of the platform!⁠—it isn’t the kind!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But he fell through the trap, with a jerk at the beam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And wiggled his toes to unburden his mind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, O, so bewitching the thoughts he advanced</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I clung to his ankles, attentive, entranced!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="judge-not" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Judge Not</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To foreigners in San Francisco, greeting.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When you see a labor-leader fiercely beating</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The air with all his fingers to betoken</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His view of this or that ere yet ’tis spoken⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When you see him, as in dancing, foot it featly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To manifest dissent the more completely⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When you hear him in a tempest of emotion</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deflate himself of some unpeaceful notion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don’t prophesy a blazing revolution;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don’t drag the guillotine from its seclusion;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don’t whistle up a storm of blood and thunder,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fill the world with horror, fear and wonder!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’s dreadful in defining his position,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’s terrible in threatening sedition⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a Past Grand Master of Submission.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="desperation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Desperation</h3>
				<p>
					<span>My days all are wasted in vainly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Contesting the field against Fate;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My nights with remorses insanely</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are swarming, and spectres of hate.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O for rest! O for peace!” I cry madly⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Let me fall, for I faint in the strife.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be dead, to be dead, I’d give gladly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All, all that I have, except life.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-dog" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To Dog</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Pervading pest! Old Adam, when he saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thy prime progenitor, I doubt not, swore</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And kicked the curst kioodle from the door,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though now thy whelpage we protect by law.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In faith, thou must have been a beastly, raw,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Uncultivated monster many score</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Immemorable centuries before</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy rigor was by breeding made to thaw.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How racy of the soil thou must have been!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Indigenous and close to nature’s heart!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How strong thy jaw-lock, habits how unclean,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And what a sink of infamy thy heart!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It may be, though, thou wert created upright.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If Man (the angels’ care) could fall, a pup might.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-grabber" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To a Grabber</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If, Prentiss Maslin, you would kindly leave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A coin or two of what the State has hoarded</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We’d think it generous of you; for we’ve</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But just begun our fortunes to retrieve,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Having lost all our treasury afforded</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To certain robbers, who, departing, left</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Us <em>you</em> as a memorial of the theft.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Memorial? Bless you! you’re the very thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Incarnate⁠—and by no means any cleaner</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For incarnation. Sir, you are the king</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of crimes, grown great and proud remembering</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When you were young and but a misdemeanor.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let lesser souls be ravenous of pelf,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He scorns the gains of greed who’s greed itself.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What! shall a firework covetously yearn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">While splendoring the skies⁠—a gorgeous rocket</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where golden constellations grandly burn⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To take the earth along? ’Tis sad to learn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That even the robe of glory has a pocket.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In you, alas! I’d fondly hoped to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One man that loved himself unselfishly.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="memorial-day" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Memorial Day</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The bands have played, the singers finished singing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flags done flapping and the bells done ringing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hereditary candidates have spoken;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their tongues are silent and their hearts are broken⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Barnes, Shortridge, Salomon-in-all-his-glory,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With wounds (their mouths) no longer wide and gory⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Healed by the touch of time; for even orations</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must sometimes come to end if one have patience.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And still in spite of all the din infernal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of every “General” and “Judge” and “Colonel,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our grand old heroes sleep in peace eternal!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-dampened-ardor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Dampened Ardor</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Chinatown at Bakersfield</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was blazing bright and high;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flames to water would not yield,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though torrents drenched the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And drowned the ground for miles around⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The houses were so dry.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then rose an aged preacher man</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whom all did much admire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who said: “To force on you my plan</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I truly don’t aspire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But streams, it seems, might quench these beams</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If turned upon the fire.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The fireman said: “This hoary wight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His folly dares to thrust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On <em>us</em>! ’Twere well he felt our might⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nay, he shall feel our must!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With jet of wet and small regret</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They laid that old man’s dust.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="adair-welcker-poet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Adair Welcker, Poet</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Swan of Avon died⁠—the Swan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Sacramento’ll soon be gone;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when his death-song he shall coo,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stand back, or it will kill you too.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-word-warrior" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To a Word-Warrior</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Frank Pixley, you, who kiss the hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That strove to cut the country’s throat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Cannot forgive the hands that smote</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Applauding in a distant land⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Applauding carelessly, as one</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The weaker willing to befriend</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Until the quarrel’s at an end,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then learn by whom it was begun.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When North was pitted against South</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Non-combatants on either side</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In calculating fury vied,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fought their foes by word of mouth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That mad logomachy you led</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With formidable feats of tongue.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Then on the battle’s rear you hung⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With Samson’s weapon slew the dead!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So hot the ardor of your soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That every fierce civilian came</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His torch to kindle at your flame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or have you blow his cooling coal.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Men prematurely left their beds</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And sought the gelid bath⁠—so great</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The heat and splendor of your hate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Englishmen and “Copperheads.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>King Liar of deceitful men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For imposition doubly armed!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The patriots whom your speaking charmed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You stung to madness with your pen.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There was a certain journal here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Its English owner growing rich⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your hand the treason wrote for which</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A mob cut short its curst career.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If, Pixley, you had not the brain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To know the true from false, or you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To Truth had courage to be true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And loyal to her perfect reign;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If you had not your powers arrayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To serve the wrong by tricksy speech,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor pushed yourself within the reach</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of retribution’s accolade,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I had not had the will to go</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Outside the olive-bordered path</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of peace to cut the birch of wrath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And strip your body for the blow.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Behold how dark the war-clouds rise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">About the mother of our race!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The lightnings gild her tranquil face</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And glitter in her patient eyes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Her children throng the hither flood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And lean intent above the beach.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Their beating hearts inhibit speech</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With stifling tides of English blood.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Their skies, but not their hearts, they change</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who go in ships across the sea”⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Through all centuries to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The strange new land will still be strange.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Island Mother holds in gage</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The souls of sons she never saw;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Superior to law, the law</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of sympathetic heritage.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Forgotten now the foolish reign</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of wrath which sundered trivial ties.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A soldier’s sabre vainly tries</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To cleave a spiritual chain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The iron in our blood affines,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though fratricidal hands may spill.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shall Hate be throned on Bunker Hill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet Love abide in Seven Pines?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-culinary-candidate" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Culinary Candidate</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A cook adorned with paper cap,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or waiter with a tray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May be a worthy kind of chap</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">In his way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But when we want one for Recorder,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Walton, take our order.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-one-acquitted" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To One Acquitted</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Sir, you have killed a man and you are free⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That is, your hanging ne’er will come about;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I’ve observed when jurors disagree</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">’Tis not as ’tis when other thieves fall out.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some honest men are in the case, no doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But none come by their own⁠—not even the chap</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose honest office is to spring the trap.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Some needy tramp, I think, is deputized</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That lowly function to perform⁠—although</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I must confess I am not well advised</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Concerning that: I ne’er did undergo</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A hanging; but if I am right you owe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The customary perquisite to some</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poor shivering and disappointed “bum.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If Californian hangmen are too proud</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To wear the clothing of the wretch they string,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the good ancient custom’s been allowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To lapse; or if so seldom murderers swing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In this good land that there is no such thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As custom in the case, the truth we reach is:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’ve forfeited your life, but not your breeches.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="content" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Content</h3>
				<p>
					<span>One day when Satan visited the earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In order that his eyes might feed his mirth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A loyal follower in sorrow said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Father of Falsehood, to our idols wed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We rear memorials in bronze and stone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To every kind of mortal greatness known;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But not in this thy realm stands anywhere</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A monument or statue to declare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy greater glory.” With the modest mien</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of violet that loves to bloom unseen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Satan replied: “All earthly fame I shun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Content with consciousness of work well done.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Statues to heroes! Mine the humble glory</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To tell on every pedestal the story.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="at-the-observatory" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">At the Observatory</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Mahatma Holden, Autocrat of Stars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fixed to the telescope his curious eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And waited for some great phenomenon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To seek his field of vision. Years and years,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Retiring early, rising with the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With patience proof against defeat, he still</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had sought some grand discovery; and still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dogging the footsteps of endeavor, came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grim disappointment and in mockery</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Derided him. But now, even as he gazed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A great white light crept up the sky, and lo!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the telescope’s illumined ken</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swam with a stately grace a noble orb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And paused in mid-field of the mighty tube!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Mahatma Holden, Autocrat of Stars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was found next morn beneath the instrument,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Senseless and motionless as one that’s dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“By some emotion overcome,” said one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Sometime physician to the Ghug of Smat)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who with sharp stimulants and kindly words</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strove to revive him. Scarcely had the fresh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wholesome air saluted both his lungs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than, “Paper!” cried he⁠—“paper, pen and ink!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quick, ere the glorious memory fades! Ah, friends,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not all in vain my vigils and my skill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To read the secrets of the upper deep:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At last I’m famous and my name shall ring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Adown the centuries unlinked with theirs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My menials, Burnham, Bar⁠—” he faltered then,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet with a mighty effort peaced himself,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mastered his spirit, calmly gazed about</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, with angelic dignity, explained:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I’ve found the Moon!” And it was even so.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-oleomargarine-man" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Oleomargarine Man</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Once⁠—in the county of Marin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where milk is sold to purchase gin⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Renowned for butter and renowned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For fourteen ounces to the pound⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A bull stood watching every turn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Wilson with a churn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As that deigning worthy stalked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About him, eying as he walked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>El Toro’s sleek and silken hide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His neck, his flank and all beside;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thinking with secret joy: “I’ll spread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This mammal on a slice of bread!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Soon <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Wilson’s keen concern</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To get the creature in his churn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unhorsed his caution⁠—made him blind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the fell vigor of bullkind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till, filled with valor to the teeth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He drew his dasher from its sheath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bravely brandished it; the while</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He smiled a dark, portentous smile;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A deep, sepulchral smile; a wide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And open smile, which, at his side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The churn to copy vainly tried;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A smile so like the dawn of doom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That all the field was palled in gloom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the trees within a mile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As tribute to that awful smile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made haste, with loyalty discreet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fling their shadows at his feet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then rose his battle-cry: “I’ll spread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This mammal on a slice of bread!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To such a night the day had turned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Taurus dimly was discerned.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He wore so meek and grave an air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It seemed as if, engaged in prayer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This thunderbolt incarnate had</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No thought of anything that’s bad:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This concentrated earthquake stood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gave his mind to being good.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lightly and low he drew his breath⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This magazine of sudden death!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All this the thrifty Wilson’s glance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Took in, and, crying, “Now’s my chance!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the bull he sprang amain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To put him in his churn. Again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rang out his battle-yell: “I’ll spread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This mammal on a slice of bread!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sing, Muse, that battle-royal⁠—sing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The deeds that made the region ring:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blows, the bellowing, the cries,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dust that darkened all the skies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The thunders of the contest, all!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay, none of these things did befall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A yell there was⁠—a rush⁠—no more:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>El Toro, tranquil as before,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still stood there basking in the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor of his legs had shifted one⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stood there and conjured up his cud</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And meekly munched it. Scenes of blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had little charm for him. His head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He merely nodded as he said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I’ve spread that butterman upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A slice of Southern Oregon.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-genesis-of-crime" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Genesis of Crime</h3>
				<p>
					<span>God said, “Let there be Crime,” and the command</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brought Satan, leading Stoneman by the hand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Why, that’s Stupidity, not Crime,” said God⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Bring what I ordered.” Satan with a nod</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Replied, “This is <em>one</em> element⁠—when I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The <em>other</em>⁠—Opportunity⁠—supply</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In just equivalent, the two’ll affine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in a chemical embrace combine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Crime result⁠—for Crime can only be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stupiditate of Opportunity.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So leaving Stoneman (not as yet endowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With soul) in special session on a cloud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nick to his sooty laboratory went,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Returning soon with t’other element.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Here’s Opportunity,” he said, and put</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pen, ink, and paper down at Stoneman’s foot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He seized them⁠—Heaven was filled with fires and thunders,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Crime was added to Creation’s wonders!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="llewellyn-powell" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Llewellyn Powell</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Villain, when the word is spoken,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And your chains at last are broken;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the gibbet’s chilling shade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ceases darkly to enfold you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the angel who enrolled you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As a master of the trade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of assassination sadly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Blots the record he has made,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And your name and title paints</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the calendar of saints;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the devils, dancing madly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the midmost Hell, are very</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Multitudinously merry⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then beware, beware, beware!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nemesis is everywhere!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You shall hear her at your back,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And, your hunted visage turning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fancy that her eyes are burning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a tiger’s on your track!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You shall hear her in the breeze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whispering to summer trees.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You shall hear her calling, calling</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To your spirit through the storm</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When the giant billows form</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the splintered lightning, falling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down the heights of Heaven, appalling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Splendors all the tossing seas!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On your bed at night reclining,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stars into your chamber shining</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As they roll around the Pole,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>None their purposes divining,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shall appear to search your soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to gild the mark of Cain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That burns into your tortured brain!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the dead man’s eyes shall ever</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Meet your own wherever you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Desperate, shall turn you to,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you shall escape them never!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>By your heritage of guilt;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the blood that you have spilt;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the Law that you have broken;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the terrible red token</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That you bear upon your brow;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the awful sentence spoken</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And irrevocable vow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which consigns you to a living</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death and to the unforgiving</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Furies who avenge your crime</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the periods of time;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By that dread eternal doom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hinted in your future’s gloom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As the flames infernal tell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of their power and perfection</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In their wavering reflection</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On the battlements of Hell;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the mercy you denied,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I condemn your guilty soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In your body to abide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like a serpent in a hole!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-sunset-gun" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Sunset Gun</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Off Santa Cruz the western wave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was crimson as with blood:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sun was sinking to his grave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beneath that angry flood.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sir Walter Turnbull, brave and stout,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Then shouted, “Ho! lads; run⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The powder and the wad bring out</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To fire the sunset gun.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“That punctual orb did ne’er omit</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To keep, by land or sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its every engagement; it</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shall never wait for me.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Behold the black-mouthed cannon stand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ready with charge and prime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lanyard in the gunner’s hand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sir Walter waits the time.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The glowing orb sinks in the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And clouds of steam aspire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then fade, and the horizon’s free.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sir Walter thunders: “Fire!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The gunner pulls⁠—the lanyard parts</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And not a sound ensues.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The beating of ten thousand hearts</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was heard at Santa Cruz!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Off Santa Cruz the western wave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was crimson as with blood;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sun, with visage stern and grave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Came back from out the flood.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-viduate-dame" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The “Viduate Dame”</h3>
				<p>
					<span>’Tis the widow of Thomas Blythe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And she goeth upon the spree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And red are cheeks of the bystanders</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For her acts are light and free.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In a seven-ounce costúme</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The widow of Thomas Blythe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Y-perched high on the window ledge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The difficult can-can tryeth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ten constables they essay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To bate the dame’s halloing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the widow of Thomas Blythe</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Their hands are overflowing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And they cry: “Call the National Guard</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To quell this parlous muss⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For all of the widows of Thomas Blythe</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are upon the spree and us!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O long shall the eerie tale be told</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By that posse’s surviving tithe;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with tears bedewed he’ll sing this rude</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ballàd of the widow of Thomas Blythe.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="four-of-a-kind" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Four of a Kind</h3>
				<section id="four-of-a-kind-1">
					<h4 epub:type="title">Robert <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">F.</abbr> Morrow</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Dear man! although a stranger and a foe</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To soft affection’s humanizing glow;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Although untaught how manly hearts may throb</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With more desires than the desire to rob;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Although as void of tenderness as wit,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And owning nothing soft but Maurice Schmitt;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Although polluted, shunned and in disgrace,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You fill me with a passion to embrace!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Attentive to your look, your smile, your beck,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I watch and wait to fall upon your neck.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lord of my love, and idol of my hope,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You are my Valentine, and I’m</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i13">
							<b>A Rope.</b>
						</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="four-of-a-kind-2">
					<h4 epub:type="title">Alfred Clarke, <abbr>Jr.</abbr></h4>
					<p>
						<span>Illustrious son of an illustrious sire⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Entrusted with the duty to cry “Fire!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And call the engines out, exert your power</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With care. When, looking from your lofty tower,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You see a ruddy light on every wall,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pause for a moment ere you sound the call:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It may be from a fire, it may be, too,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From good men’s blushes when they think of you.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="four-of-a-kind-3">
					<h4 epub:type="title">Judge Rutledge</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Sultan of Stupids! with enough of brains</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To go indoors in all uncommon rains,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But not enough to stay there when the storm</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is past. When all the world is dry and warm,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In irking comfort, lamentably gay,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Keeping the evil tenor of your way,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You walk abroad, sweet, beautiful and smug,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Justice hears you with her wonted shrug,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lifts her broad bandage half-an-inch and keeps</span>
						<br/>
						<span>One eye upon you while the other weeps.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="four-of-a-kind-4">
					<h4 epub:type="title"><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">W. H. L.</abbr> Barnes</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Happy the man who sin’s proverbial wage</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Receives on the instalment plan⁠—in age.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For him the bulldog pistol’s honest bark</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Has naught of terror in its blunt remark.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He looks with calmness on the gleaming steel⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If e’er it touched his heart he did not feel:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Superior hardness turned its point away,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Though urged by fond affinity to stay;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His bloodless veins ignored the futile stroke,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And moral mildew kept the cut in cloak.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Happy the man, I say, to whom the wage</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of sin has been commuted into age.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet not <em>quite</em> happy⁠—hark, that horrid cry!⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His cruel mirror wounds him in the eye!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="reconciliation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Reconciliation</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Stanford and Huntington, so long at outs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kissed and made up. If you have any doubts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dismiss them, for I saw them do it, man;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then⁠—why, then I clutched my purse and ran.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-vision-of-climate" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Vision of Climate</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I dreamed that I was poor and ill and sad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Broken in hope and weary of my life;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My ventures all miscarrying⁠—naught had</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For all my labor in the heat and strife.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And in my heart some certain thoughts were rife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of an unsummoned exit. As I lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Considering my bitter state, I cried:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Alas! that hither I did ever stray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Better in some fair country to have died</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than live in such a land, where Fortune never</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Unless one be successful) crowns Endeavor.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then, even as I lamented, lo! there came</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A troop of Presences⁠—I knew not whence</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor what they were: thought cannot rightly name</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What’s known through spiritual evidence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Reported not by gross material sense.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Why come ye here?” I seemed to cry (though naught</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My sleeping tongue did utter) to the first⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“What are ye?⁠—with what woful message fraught?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ye have a ghastly look, as ye had burst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some sepulcher in memory. Weird creatures,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m sure I’d know you if ye had but features.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Some subtle organ noted the reply</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(Inaudible to ear of flesh the tone):</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The Finest Climate in the World am I,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From Siskiyou to San Diego known⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From the Sierra to the sea. The zone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Called semi-tropical I’ve pulled about</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And placed it where it does most good, I trust.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I shake my never-failing bounty out</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Alike upon the just and the unjust.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“That’s very true,” said I, “but when ’tis shaken</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My share by the unjust is ever taken.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Permit me,” it resumed, “now to present</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My eldest son, the Champagne Atmosphere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And others to rebuke your discontent⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Mammoth Squash, Strawberry All the Year,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The fair No Lightning⁠—flashing only here⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Wholesome Earthquake and Italian Sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With its Unstriking Sun; and last, not least,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Compos Mentis Dog. Now, ingrate, try</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To bring a better stomach to the feast:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Nature makes a dance and pays the piper,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be unhappy is to be a viper!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Why, yet,” said I, “with all your blessings fine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(And Heaven forbid that I should speak them ill)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m poor and ill and sorrowful. Ye shine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With more of splendor than of heat: for still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Although my will is warm, my bones are chill.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Then warm you with enthusiasm’s blaze⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fortune waits not on toil,” they cried; “O then,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Join the wild chorus clamoring our praise⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Throw up your beaver and throw down your pen!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Begone!” I shouted. They bewent, a-smirking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I, awakening, fell straight a-working.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-mass-meeting" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A “Mass” Meeting</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It was a solemn rite as e’er</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was seen by mortal man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The celebrants, the people there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Were all Republican.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There Estee bent his grizzled head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And General Dimond, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And one⁠—’twas Reddick, some one said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though no one clearly knew.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I saw the priest, white-robed and tall</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(Assistant, Father Stow)⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was the pious man men call</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dan Burns of Mexico.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, ’twas a high and holy rite</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As any one could swear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“What does it mean?” I asked a wight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who knelt apart in prayer.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“A mass for the repose,” he said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Of Colonel Markham’s”⁠—“What,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is gallant Colonel Markham dead?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">’Tis sad, ’tis sad, God wot!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“A mass”⁠—repeated he, and rose</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To go and kneel among</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The worshipers⁠—“for the repose</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Colonel Markham’s tongue.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-new-dennis" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The New Dennis</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Lo! Kearney, rising on his hinder legs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For higher rates of freight and passage begs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Time was when Dennis talked another way⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because he drove an opposition dray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus, soon or late, to override the laws</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All common carriers make common cause,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pool the foul issues of their dirty lungs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lick each other with fraternal tongues.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crocker and Kearney, men of equal leather,</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i xml:lang="la">Arcades ambo</i>⁠—they are pigs together.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-rational-anthem" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Rational Anthem</h3>
				<p>
					<span>My country, ’tis of thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweet land of felony,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of thee I sing⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Land where my fathers fried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Young witches and applied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whips to the Quaker’s hide</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And made him spring.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My knavish country, thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Land where the thief is free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Thy laws I love;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I love thy thieving bills</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That tap the people’s tills;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I love thy mob whose will’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">All laws above.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let Federal employees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rings rob all they please,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The whole year long.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let office-holders make</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their piles and judges rake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our coin. For Jesus’ sake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Let’s <em>all</em> go wrong!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="incivism" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Incivism</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“He’s no good citizen!” the crowd</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of politicians cries aloud.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“How so?” says one.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i9">“Because⁠—why, curse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The man! while we deplete his purse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some air contentedly he hums,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or twiddles his incivic thumbs.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“What more could you desire?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i13">“The whelp!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We want him to stand in and help.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“<em>Two</em> crowds contend, his purse to twist</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Away⁠—pray which should he assist?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“It matters not whose hand unsacks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His shekels, for we all go snacks.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="famine-in-prosperity" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Famine in Prosperity</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Two monks upon a field of battle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Observed some lean and hungry cattle.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said one: “But little feed is growing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where Death so lately has been mowing.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Replied the other, gravely eying</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The piles of dead about them lying:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“All flesh is grass⁠—I’m quite confounded</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That cows should starve by hay surrounded.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-epigrammatist" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Epigrammatist</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Once Hector Stuart in his tersest mood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Took up his pencil. “By the holy rood!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He cried, “I’ll write an epigram.” He did⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay, by the holy <em>mile</em> his pencil slid.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="fig-leaf" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Fig Leaf</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>(A Definition)</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>An artist’s trick by which the Nude’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Protected from the eyes of prudes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which else with their peculiar flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Might scorch the canvass in its frame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or melt the bronze, or burn to lime</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The marble, in a minute’s time.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For sparks are sometimes seen to dance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where falls a dame’s offended glance,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And little curls of smoke to rise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From fingers veiling virgin eyes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O prudes I know you⁠—once you made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Among us here a fool crusade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against some casts from the antique,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Great, naked, natural and Greek,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whereto you flocked, a prurient crush,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And diligently tried to blush,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Half strangled in the vain attempt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till some one (may the wretch be hemped!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Depressed his lordly length of ear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your loud lubricity to hear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then took his chisel up and dealt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At Art a blow below the belt.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Insulted, crimson with the shame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her cheeks aglow, her eyes aflame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The goddess spread her pinions bright,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sprang, and the town was left in night!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Since then in vain the painter toils:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His canvass still repels the oils.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In vain with melancholy sighs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His burin the engraver plies;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lines multiply beneath his hand⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their meaning none can understand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With stubborn clay and unsubdued.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sculptor shapes his fancies crude,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unable to refine the work,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And makes a god look like a Turk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To marble grown, or metal, still</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The monstrous image makes him ill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till, crazed with rage, the damaged lot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He breaks, or sells to Irving Scott.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="for-president-leland-stanford" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">For President, Leland Stanford</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Mahomet Stanford, with covetous stare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gazed on a vision surpassingly fair:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Far on the desert’s remote extreme</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A mountain of gold with a mellow gleam</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reared its high pinnacles into the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The work of <i xml:lang="fr">mirage</i> to delude the eye.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pixley Pasha, at the Prophet’s feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Piously licking them, swearing them sweet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ventured, observing his master’s glance,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To beg that he order the mountain’s advance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mahomet Stanford exerted his will,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Commanding: “In Allah’s name, hither, hill!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never an inch the mountain came.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mahomet Stanford, with face aflame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lifted his foot and kicked, alack!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pixley Pasha on the end of the back.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mollified thus and smiling free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He said: “Since the mountain won’t come to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll go to the mountain.” With infinite pains,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Camels in caravans, negroes in trains,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Warriors, workmen, women, and fools,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Food and water and mining tools</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He gathered about him, a mighty array,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the journey began at the close of day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All night they traveled⁠—at early dawn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Many a wearisome league had gone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Morning broke fair with a golden sheen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mountain, alas, was nowhere seen!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mahomet Stanford pounded his breast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pixley Pasha he thus addressed:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Dog of mendacity, cheat and slave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May jackasses sing o’er your grandfather’s grave!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="for-mayor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">For Mayor</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O Abner Doble⁠—whose “catarrhal name”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Budd of the same might envy⁠—’tis a rough</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Rude thing to say, but it is plain enough</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your name is to be sneezed at: its acclaim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will “fill the speaking trump of future fame”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With an impeded utterance⁠—a puff</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Suggesting that a pinch or two of snuff</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would clear the tube and somewhat disinflame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay, Abner Doble, you’ll not get from me</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My voice and influence: I’ll cheer instead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Some other man; for when my voice ascends a</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tall pinnacle of praise, and at high C</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sustains a chosen name, it shan’t be said</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">My influence is naught but influenza.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-mine-for-reformers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Mine for Reformers</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When God resolved to make the world</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He gathered all the matter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Chaos that was mixed and whirled</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In unassorted scatter.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He separated that from this,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And tagged on each a label,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Naming all kinds of substances</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As far as he was able.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He lacked of learning, though, enough</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To execute his aim, for</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There still remained a lot of stuff</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He hadn’t any name for.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And this (the world completed) lies</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Without concatenation⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All unassorted⁠—and supplies</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ideals for all Creation.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-pickle" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">In Pickle</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The journals say that the embalming done</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Garfield’s body badly was begun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faultily finished all too soon⁠—in short</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was of a most unsatisfactory sort.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unsatisfactory? How so? To whom?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has the long sullen silence of the tomb</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At last been broken? Is rebellion’s head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reared in the subject province of the dead?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unsatisfactory, forsooth! Who’d wish</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To satisfy, in salting it, a fish?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With spices when the conscious cook supplies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The autumnal mince-meat for the winter pies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He makes no question if the meat prefer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clove, cinnamon or pepper, sage or myrrh.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“There was,” says Chowder if a clam upbraid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“No thought of pleasing thee when I was made.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What! shall the dead with impudence complain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of how we’ve potted each inert remain?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pickle criticise and even condemn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if the purpose were to pleasure them?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their cure they rightly canvass in disease;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We’ll cure them after in what way we please.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With blazing eulogies in crowded halls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And mourning emblems blackening the walls;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With gorgeous funerals, both at the spot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where you were buried and where you were not⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dummy funeral’s inutile show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fifty to manifest a dummy woe;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With black-ruled journals, selling all at twice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The customary uneventful price;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With guarded tomb and monument as fine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As any light-house on the ocean line⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Garfield, if still you are dissatisfied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You might as profitably not have died.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So you’re complaining⁠—<i xml:lang="fr">vive la bagatelle</i>!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The brine, no doubt, was weak, and cheap as well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Got for a song an undertaker sang</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(We paid him for it through the nose⁠—the pang</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More keen than all our sorrow.) Even so,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your bones that served us for a public show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Outlast already our unsalted woe.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="james-montague-poet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">James Montague, Poet</h3>
				<p>
					<span>’Tis said he wrote with wondrous ease,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And that is here conceded;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But anybody, if he please,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Can write such verse as he did.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Although for James ’twas easy quite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Another’s difficulty might</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In self-defense be pleaded.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-cheating-preacher" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Cheating Preacher</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Munhall, to have my soul you bravely try,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Although, to save my soul, I can’t say why.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis naught to you, to me however much⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why, bless it! you might save a million such,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet lose your own; for still the “means of grace”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That you employ to turn us from the place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the arch-enemy of souls frequented</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are those which to ensnare us he invented!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I do not say you utter falsehoods⁠—I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would scorn to give to ministers the lie:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They cannot fight⁠—their calling has estopped it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>True, I did not persuade them to adopt it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, Munhall, when you say the Devil dwells</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In all the breasts of all the infidels⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Making a lot of individual Hells,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You talk as I should if some world I trod</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where lying is acceptable to God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I don’t at all object⁠—forbid it Heaven!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That your discourse you temperately leaven</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With airy reference to wicked souls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cursing impenitent on glowing coals,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor quarrel with your fancy, blithe and fine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which represents the wickedest as mine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each ornament of style my spirit eases:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The subject saddens, but the manner pleases.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But when you “deal damnation round” ’twere sweet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To think hereafter that you did not cheat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deal, and let all accept what you allot ’em;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, blast you! you are dealing from the bottom!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-crocodile" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Crocodile</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, Peter Robertson, ’tis not for you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To blubber o’er Max Taubles for he’s dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By Heaven! my hearty, if you only knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How better is a grave-worm in the head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than brains like yours⁠—how far more decent, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A tomb in far Corea than a bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where Peter lies with Peter, you would covet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His happier state and, dying, learn to love it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In the recesses of the silent tomb</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No Maunderings of yours disturb the peace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your mental bag-pipe, droning like the gloom</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Hades audible, perforce must cease</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From troubling further; and that crack o’ doom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your mouth, shaped like a long bow, shall release</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In vain such shafts of wit as it can utter⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ear of death can’t even hear them flutter.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-american-party" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The American Party</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Oh, Marcus <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">D.</abbr> Boruck, me hearty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I sympathize wid ye, poor lad!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man that’s shot out of his party</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is mighty onlucky, bedad!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">An’ the sowl o’ that man is sad.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But, Marcus, gossoon, ye desarve it⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ye know for yerself that ye do,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For ye j’ined not intendin’ to sarve it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But hopin’ to make it sarve you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though the roll of its members wuz two.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The other wuz Pixley, an’ “Surely,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ye said, “he’s a kite that wull sail.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ so ye hung till him securely,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Enactin’ the role of a tail.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But there wuzn’t the ghost of a gale!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But the party to-day has behind it</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A powerful backin’, I’m told;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For just enough Irish have j’ined it</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(An’ I’m m’anin’ to be enrolled)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To kick ye out into the cold.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It’s hard on ye, darlint, I’m thinkin’⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So young⁠—so American, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wid bypassers grinnin’ an’ winkin’,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">An’ sayin’, wid ref’rence to you:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Get onto the murtherin’ Joo!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Republicans never will take ye⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They had ye for many a year;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ Democrats⁠—angels forsake ye!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If ever ye come about here</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We’ll brand ye and scallop yer ear!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="uncoloneled" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Uncoloneled</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Though war-signs fail in time of peace, they say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Two awful portents gloom the public mind:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All Mexico is arming for the fray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Colonel Mark McDonald has resigned!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We know not by what instinct he divined</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The coming trouble⁠—maybe, like the steed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Described by Job, he smelled the fight afar.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Howe’er it be, he left, and for that deed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is an aspirant to the <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:initialism">G.A.R.</abbr></span>
					<br/>
					<span>When cannon flame along the Rio Grande</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A citizen’s commission will be handy.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-gates-ajar" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Gates Ajar</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Day of Judgment spread its glare</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O’er continents and seas.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The graves cracked open everywhere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like pods of early peas.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Up to the Court of Heaven sped</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The souls of all mankind;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Republicans were at the head</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Democrats behind.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Reub Lloyd was there before the tube</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Gabriel could call:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dead in Christ rise first, and Reub</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had risen first of all.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He sat beside the Throne of Flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As, to the trumpet’s sound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Four statesmen of the Party came</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And ranged themselves around⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Pure spirits shining like the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From taint and blemish free⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Great William Stow was there for one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And George <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A.</abbr> Knight for three.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Souls less indubitably white</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Approached with anxious air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Judge Blake at head of them by right</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of having been a Mayor.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His ermine he had donned again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Long laid away in gums.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas soiled a trifle by the stains</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of politicians’ thumbs.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then Knight addressed the Judge of Heaven:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Your Honor, would it trench</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On custom here if Blake were given</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A seat upon the Bench?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Twas done. “Tom Shannon!” Peter cried.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He came, without ado,</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i xml:lang="la">In forma pauperis</i> was tried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And was acquitted, too!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Stow rose, remarking: “I concur.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lloyd added: “That suits <em>us</em>.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I move Tom’s nomination, sir,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Be made unanimous.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-bully" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To a Bully</h3>
				<p>
					<span>They say, George Perry, you’re a lawyer. Well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At least that’s your profession, but in fact,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Law’s like religion (though, the truth to tell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The likeness is not otherwise exact)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In this, that in them both, my learned brother,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Profession’s one thing, practice quite another.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But you do practice, for the other day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I saw you mentioned in a case in court,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cross-questioning a witness. I must say</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You did it as a cat that loves to sport</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With an unworthy mouse all too unwilling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To accept the justice of repeated killing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This witness, so the tale is told to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fatigued of your attempt upon his life⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I mean his reputation⁠—made him free</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With yours, affirming that you beat your wife.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If that is true (they say that it upset you)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She must be monstrous cowardly to let you!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You hold it right to torture men who come</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(Heaven knows unwillingly) to aid the law,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So that by terror of your tongue made dumb</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They can’t tell rightly what they heard or saw,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Impeaching credibility,” you call it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When, seeing an honest looking head, you maul it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Well, witnesses are fallible⁠—involved</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sometimes in scandals; and ’tis true that they</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are factors in the problem to be solved,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The judge and jury led by what they say.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But lawyers⁠—they are factors too, their problem</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Being foolish clients and how best to rob them.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They’ve more to say than witnesses, and more</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Important ’tis that they be truthful, too.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were’t not, then, right the witness take the floor</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And mercilessly cross-examine <em>you</em>?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were truth your jewel (bless us! what a setting!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve certain questions that would set you sweating!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, don’t be fidgeting; to ask them here</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Were perilous, for I no license hold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be a blackguard; and no judge is near</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To jail you for replies too sharp and bold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Besides, it were no easy task to shame you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And till I’m paid a fee I’ll not defame you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You see I lack advantages that you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Possess, and therefore cannot be so brave.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who has, and uses, them’s respected; who</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Has not, yet bullies, is a scurril knave⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though, faith, the difference is narrow, very,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By which a knave’s distinguished from a Perry.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You served, if rightly I remember, once</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A term in the State Legislature, where</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You figured merely as a harmless dunce,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Save when, ambitious, in the larger air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of rhetoric you held the floor a season</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To give yourself for sin sufficient reason.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thus a great bird whose nature is in doubt</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With difficulty rises from the earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His wide wings spreading with an effort out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And shows by his unconscionable girth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>E’er yet the agitated air insult your</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Resentful nose, he’s but a glutted vulture.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Touching these matters I would fain inquire</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If I but had you on the witness-grill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over the slow but efficacious fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of cross-examination; and I’d kill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The worm with quite insensible gradation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And quench the fire with great deliberation.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What, you’re no worse than other lawyers? Well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I never said you were, my little man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do you suppose I run this private Hell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For one small soul? ’Tis your entire clan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m trying to barbecue, despite their pleadings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Get out, you brat! you hamper the proceedings!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-land-fight" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Land Fight</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Great Dewey, mightiest of men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To sink or take a ship,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shows the white flag and feather when</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He hears the guns of Grip.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Great Grip! Great Dewey! Oh, my heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">There’s less tempestuous weather</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When they are leagues and leagues apart</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Than when they get together.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The air is full of uniform⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Gold lace with buttons blent!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then a voice succeeds the storm:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“I’ve downed that festive gent.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Long shall the tale be told by brave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And high-born cavaliers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And old Montojo from the grave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shall rise with all his ears.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="compliance" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Compliance</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Said Rockefeller, senior, to his boy:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Be good and you shall have eternal joy.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said Rockefeller, junior, to his dad:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I never do a single thing that’s bad.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said Rockefeller, senior⁠—long gone gray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In service at the altar: “Ever pray.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Rockefeller, junior, being bid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon his knees and neighbors ever did.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="arboriculture" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Arboriculture</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>Californians are asking themselves how Joaquin Miller will make the trees grow which he proposes to plant in the form of a Maltese cross on Goat Island, in San Francisco Bay.</p>
						<cite>
							<i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">New York Graphic</i>
						</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>You may say they won’t grow, and say they’ll decay⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Say it again till you’re sick of the say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Get up on your ear, blow your blaring bazoo</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hire a hall to proclaim it; and you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May stand on a stump with a lifted hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As a pine may stand or a redwood stand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stick to your story and cheek it through.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I point with pride to the far divide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the Snake from its groves is seen to glide⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Mariposa’s arboreal suit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the shaggy shoulders of Shasta Butte,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the feathered firs of Siskiyou;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I swear as I sit on my marvelous hair⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I roll my marvelous eyes and swear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sneer, and ask where would your forests be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To-day if it hadn’t been for me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then I rise tip-toe, with a brow of brass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a bully boy with an eye of glass;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I look at my gum sprouts, red and blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I say it loud and I say it low:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“They know their man and you bet they’ll grow!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-holiday" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Holiday</h3>
				<p>
					<span>’Tis Master Barry, editor;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He takes an holiday.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now wherefore, venerable sir,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So resolutely gay?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He lifts his head, he laughs aloud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Odzounds! ’tis drear to see!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Because the Boodle-Scribbler crowd</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Will soon be far from me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Full many a year I’ve striven well</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To freeze the caitiffs out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By making this good town a Hell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But still they hang about.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“They maken mouths and eke they grin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At the dollar limit game;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they are holpen in that sin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By many a wicked dame.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“In sylvan bowers hence I’ll dwell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My bruishd mind to ease.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Farewell, ye urban scenes, farewell!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hail, unfamiliar trees!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Forth then did Master Barry hie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And all the country folk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Besought him that he come not nigh</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The deadly poison oak!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He smiled a cheerful smile (the day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was straightway overcast)⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The poison oak along his way</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was blighted as he passed!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="rejected" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Rejected</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When <abbr>Dr.</abbr> Charles O’Donnell died</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They sank a box with him inside.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The plate with his initials three</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was simply graven⁠—“<abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:personal-name">C. O’ D.</abbr>”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That night two demons of the Pit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Adown the coal-hole shunted it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ten million million leagues it fell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alighting at the gate of Hell.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nick looked upon it with surprise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A night-storm darkening his eyes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“They’ve sent this rubbish, <abbr class="eoc">C.O.D.</abbr>⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll never pay a cent!” said he.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="judex-judicatus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Judex Judicatus</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Judge Armstrong, when the poor have sought your aid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be released from vows that they have made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In haste, and leisurely repented, you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As stern as Rhadamanthus (Minos too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Ӕacus) have drawn your fierce brows down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And petrified them with a moral frown!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With iron-faced rigor you have made them run</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gauntlet of publicity⁠—each Hun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or Vandal of the public press allowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To throw their households open to the crowd</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bawl their secret bickerings aloud.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Wealth before you suppliant appears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bang! go the doors and open fly your ears!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blinds are drawn, the lights diminished burn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lest eyes too curious should look and learn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That gold refines not, sweetens not, a life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of conjugal brutality and strife⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That vice is vulgar, though it gilded shine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the curve of a judicial spine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The veiled complainant’s whispered evidence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The plain collusion and the no defense,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sealed exhibits and the secret plea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The unrecorded and unseen decree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The midnight signature and⁠—<em>chink! chink! chink!</em>⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay, pardon, upright Judge, I did but think</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I heard that sound abhorred of honest men;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No doubt it was the scratching of your pen.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O California! long-enduring land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where Judges fawn upon the Golden Hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Proud of such service to that rascal thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As slaves would blush to render to a king⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Judges, of judgment destitute and heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of conscience conscious only by the smart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the recoil (with caution-bump enlarged)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of duty accidentally discharged⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Invoking still a “song o’ sixpence” from</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Scottish fiddle of each lusty palm⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy Judges, California, skilled to play</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This silent music, through the livelong day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perform obsequious before the rich,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And still the more they scratch the more they itch!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-the-wedding-of-an-aeronaut" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">On the Wedding of an Aëronaut</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Aëronaut, you’re fairly caught,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Despite your bubble’s leaven:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of the skies a lady’s eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Have brought you down to Heaven!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No more, no more you’ll freely soar</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Above the grass and gravel:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Henceforth you’ll walk⁠—and she will chalk</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The line that you’re to travel!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-hasty-inference" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Hasty Inference</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Devil one day, coming up from the Pit</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All grimy with perspiration,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Applied to Saint Peter and begged he’d admit</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Him a moment for consultation.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Saint showed him in where the Master reclined</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On the throne where petitioners sought him;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Both bowed, and the Evil One opened his mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Concerning the business that brought him:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“For ten million years I’ve been kept in a stew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Because you have thought me immoral;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And though I have had my opinion of you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You’ve had the best end of the quarrel.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“But now⁠—well, I venture to hope that the past</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With its misunderstandings we’ll smother;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you, sir, and I, sir, be throned here at last</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As equals, the one to the other.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Indeed!” said the Master (I cannot convey</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A sense of his tone by mere letters)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“What makes you presume you’ll be bidden to stay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Up here on such terms with your betters?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Why, sure you can’t mean it!” said Satan. “I’ve seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How Stanford and Crocker you’ve nourished,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Huntington⁠—bless me! the three like a green</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Umbrageous great bay-tree have flourished.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They are fat, they are rolling in gold, they command</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All sources and well-springs of power;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’ve given them houses, you’ve given them land⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Before them the righteous all cower.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“What of that?” “What of that?” cried the Father of Sin;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Why, I thought when I saw you were winking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At crimes such as theirs that perhaps you had been</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Converted to my way of thinking.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-voluptuary" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Voluptuary</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Who’s this that lispeth in the thickening throng</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which crowds to claim distinction in my song?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fresh from “the palms and temples of the South,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mixed aromas quarrel in his mouth:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of orange blossoms this the lingering gale,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that the odor of a spicy tale.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sir, in thy pleasure-dome down by the sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(No finer one did Kubla Khan decree)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where, Master of the Revels, thou dost stand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With joys and mysteries on either hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dost keep a poet to report the rites</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sing the tale of those Elysian nights?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faith, sir, I’d like the place if not too young.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m no great bard, but⁠—I can hold my tongue!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ad-cattonum" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Ad Cattonum</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I know not, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Catton, who you are,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor very clearly why; but you go far</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To show that you are many things beside</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A Chilean Consul with a tempting hide;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But what they are I hardly could explain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without afflicting you with mental pain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your name (gods! what a name the muse to woo⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Suggesting cats, and hinting kittens, too!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Points to an origin⁠—perhaps Maltese,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perhaps Angoran⁠—where the wicked cease</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From fiddling, and the animals that grow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The strings that groan to the tormenting bow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Live undespoiled of their insides, resigned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To give their name and nature to mankind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With Chilean birth your name but poorly tallies;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The test is⁠—Did you ever sell tamales?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It matters very little, though, my boy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If you’re from Chile or from Illinois;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You can’t, because you serve a foreign land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spit with impunity on ours, expand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cock-turkeywise, and strut with blind conceit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All heedless of the hearts beneath your feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fling falsehoods as a sower scatters grain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, for security, invoke disdain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sir, there are laws that men of sense observe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No matter whence they come nor whom they serve⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The laws of courtesy; and these forbid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You to malign, as recently you did,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As servant of another State, a State</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherein your duties all are concentrate;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Branding its Ministers as rogues⁠—in short,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inviting cuffs as suitable retort.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Chileno or American, ’tis one⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of any land a citizen, or none⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If like a new Thersites here you rail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Loading with libels every western gale,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’ll feel the cudgel on your scurvy hump</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Impinging with a salutary thump.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twill make you civil or ’twill make you jump!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-national-guardsman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The National Guardsman</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I’m a gorgeous golden hero</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And my trade is taking life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hear the twittle-twittle-tweero</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of my sibillating fife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the rub-a-dub-a-dum</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of my big bass drum!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m an escort strong and bold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Grand Army to protect.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My countenance is cold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And my attitude erect</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m a Californian Guard</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And my banner flies aloft,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the stones are O, so hard!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And my feet are O, so soft!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-barking-weasel" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Barking Weasel</h3>
				<p>
					<span>You say, John Irish, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Taylor hath</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A painted beard. Quite likely that is true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sure ’tis natural you spend your wrath</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On what has been least merciful to you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By Taylor’s chin, if I am not mistaken,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You like a rat have recently been shaken.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To wear a beard of artificial hue</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">May be or this or that, I know not what;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, faith, ’tis better to be black-and-blue</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In beard from dallying with brush and pot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than to be so in body from the beating</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That hardy rogues get when detected cheating.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You’re whacked about the mazzard rather more</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of late than any other man in town.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Certes your vulnerable back is sore</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And tender, too, your corrigible crown.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In truth your whole periphery discloses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More vivid colors than a bed of posies!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You call it glory! Put your tongue in sheath!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Scars got in battle, even if on the breast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May be a shameful record if, beneath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A robber heart a lawless strife attest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>John Sullivan had wounds, and Paddy Ryan⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay, as to that, even Masten has, and Bryan.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Tis willingly conceded you’ve a knack</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At holding the attention of the town;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The worse for you when you have on your back</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What did not grow there⁠—prithee put it down!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For pride kills thrift, and you lack board and lodging,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even while the brickbats of renown you’re dodging.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-rear-elevation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">A Rear Elevation</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>He can speak with his eyes, his hands, arms, legs, body⁠—nay, with his very bones, for he turned the broad of his back upon us in “Conrad,” the other night, and his shoulder-blades spoke to us a volume of hesitation, fear, submission, desperation⁠—everything which could haunt a man at the moment of inevitable detection.</p>
						<cite>A “Dramatic Critic.”</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Once Moses (in Scripture the story is told)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Entreated the favor God’s face to behold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Compassion divine the petition denied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lest vision be blasted and body be fried.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet this much, the Bible informs us, took place:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jehovah, concealing His terrible face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Protruded His rear from behind a great rock,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-2" id="noteref-2" epub:type="noteref">2</a></span>
					<br/>
					<span>And edification ensued without shock.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So godlike Salvini, lest worshipers die,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Averting the blaze of his withering eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tempers his terrors and shows to the pack</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of feeble adorers the broad of his back.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fires of their altars, which, paled and declined</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before him, burn all the more brightly behind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O happy adorers, to care not at all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where fawning may tickle or lip-service fall!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-upper-san-francisco" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">In Upper San Francisco</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I heard that Heaven was bright and fair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And politicians dwelt not there.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Twas said by knowing ones that they</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were in the Elsewhere⁠—so to say.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So, waking from my last long sleep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I took my place among the sheep.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I passed the gate⁠—though angels eyed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Me sharply as I stepped inside.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The new Jerusalem⁠—ah me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was a sorry sight to see!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The mansions of the blest were there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And mostly they were fine and fair;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But O, such streets!⁠—so deep and wide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all unpaved, from side to side!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And in a public square there grew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A blighted tree, most sad to view.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From off its trunk the bark was ripped⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its very branches all were stripped!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>An angel perched upon the fence</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With all the grace of indolence.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Celestial bird,” I cried in pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“What vandal wrought this wreck? Explain.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He raised his eyelids as if tired:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“What is a Vandal?” he inquired.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“This is the Tree of Life. ’Twas stripped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By Durst and Siebe, who have shipped</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“The bark across the Jordan⁠—see?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sold it to a tannery.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Alas,” I sighed, “their old-time tricks!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That pavement, too, of golden bricks⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“They’ve gobbled that?” But with a scowl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You greatly wrong them,” said the fowl:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“ ’Twas Gilleran did that, I fear⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Head of the Street Department here.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“What! what!” cried I⁠—“you let such chaps</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come here? You’ve Satan, too, perhaps.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“We had him, yes, but off he went,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet showed some purpose to repent;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“But since your priests and parsons filled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The place with those their preaching killed”⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>(Here Siebe passed along with Durst,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Psalming as if their lungs would burst)⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“He swears his foot no more shall press</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our soil⁠—’tis cloven, though, I guess.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“In short, the fellow’s out on strike⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But devils are not all alike.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lo! Gilleran came down the street,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pressing the soil with broad, flat feet!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="nimrod" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Nimrod</h3>
				<p>
					<span>There were brave men, some one has truly said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before Atrides (those were mostly dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behind him) and long ages ere you were</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Actӕon lived, Nimrod and Bahram-Gur.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In strength and speed and daring they excelled:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stag they overtook, the lion felled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, yes, great hunters flourished before you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And⁠—for Munchausen lived⁠—great talkers too.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There’ll be no more; there’s much to kill, but⁠—well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>You</em> have left nothing in the world to tell!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-new-decalogue" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The New Decalogue</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Have but one God: thy knees were sore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If bent in prayer to three or four.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Adore no images save those</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The coinage of thy country shows.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Take not the Name in vain. Direct</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy swearing unto some effect.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thy hand from Sunday work be held⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Work not at all unless compelled.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Honor thy parents, and perchance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their wills thy fortunes may advance.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Kill not⁠—death liberates thy foe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From persecution’s constant woe.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Kiss not thy neighbor’s wife. Of course</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There’s no objection to divorce.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To steal were folly, for ’tis plain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In cheating there is greater gain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Bear not false witness. Shake your head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And say that you have “heard it said.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Who stays to covet ne’er will catch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An opportunity to snatch.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ultra-crepidam" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Ultra Crepidam</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>I think there must be some misunderstanding regarding my reference to the Catholic Church in the Philippines in my address at the Stanford University.</p>
						<cite><abbr>Gen.</abbr> Funston</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>A misunderstanding? Why, that’s a great scandal!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So stick to the weapon you know how to handle.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tongue is a very uncertain convincer;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don’t draw it at all⁠—keep it in, keep it in, sir.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I never have heard it was any great labor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To dig out your meaning when swinging your sabre.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even dull Filipino (ah, green be the bed of him!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can manage to get it somehow through the head of him.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="censor-literarum" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Censor Literarum</h3>
				<p>
					<span>So, Parson Stebbins, you’ve released your chin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To say that here, and here, we press-folk ail.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis a great thing an editor to skin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And hang his faulty pelt upon a nail</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(If over-eared, it has, at least, no tail)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, for an admonition against sin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Point out its maculations with a rod,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And act, in short, the gentleman of God.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Twere needless cruelty to spoil your sport</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By comment, critical or merely rude;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But you, too, have, according to report,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Despite your posing as a holy dude,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Imperfect spiritual pulchritude</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For so severe a judge. May’t please the court,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We shall appeal and take our case at once</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before that higher court, a taller dunce.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sir, what were <em>you</em> without the press? What spreads</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The fame of your existence, once a week,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the Pacific Mail dock to the Heads,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Warning the people you’re about to wreak</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Upon the human ear your Sunday freak?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whereat the most betake them to their beds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though some prefer to slumber in the pews</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And nod assent to your hypnotic views.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Unhappy man! can you not still your tongue</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When (like a luckless brat afflict with worms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By cruel fleas intolerably stung,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or with a pang in its small lap) it squirms?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still must it vulgarize your feats of lung?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There were no better preachering beneath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sun if you’d naught there behind your teeth.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="borrowed-brains" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Borrowed Brains</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Writer folk across the bay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Take the pains to see and say⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All their upward palms in air:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Joaquin Miller’s cut his hair!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hasten, hasten, writer folk⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the gutters rake and poke,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If by God’s exceeding grace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You may hit upon the place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the barber threw at length</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Samson’s literary strength.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Find it, find it if you can;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Happy the successful man!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He has but to put one strand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In his beaver’s inner band</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his intellect will soar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As it never did before!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While an inch of it remains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He will noted be for brains,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And at last (’twill so befall)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fit to cease to write at all.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ye-fightynge-seventh" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Ye Fightynge Seventh</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It is the gallant Seventh⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It fyghteth faste and free!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God wot the where it fyghteth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I ne desyre to be.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Gonfalon it flyeth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Seeming a Flayme in Sky;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Bugel loud yblowen is,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which sayeth, Doe and dye!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And (O good Saints defende us</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Agaynst the Woes of Warr)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drawn Tongues are flashing deadly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To smyte the Foeman sore!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With divers kinds of Riddance</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The smoaking Earth is wet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all aflowe to seaward goe</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Torrents wide of Sweat!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Thunder of the Captens,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And eke the Shouting, mayketh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such horrid Din the Soule within</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The boddy of me quayketh!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Who fyghteth the bold Seventh?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What haughty Power defyes?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their Colonel ’tis they drubben sore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And dammen too his Eyes!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="indicted" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Indicted</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Dear Bruner, once we had a little talk</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(That is to say, ’twas I did all the talking)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About the manner of your moral walk:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How devious the trail you made in stalking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On level ground, your law-protected game⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Another’s Dollar” is, I think, its name.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your crooked course more recently is not</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So blamable; for, truly, you have stumbled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On evil days; and ’tis your luckless lot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To traverse spaces (with a spirit humbled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Contrite, dejected and divinely sad)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where, ’tis confessed, the walking’s mighty bad.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Jordan, the song says, is a road (I thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It was a river) that is hard to travel;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Dublin, if you’d find it, must be sought</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Along a highway with more rocks than gravel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In difficulty neither can compete</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With that wherein you navigate your feet.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As once George Gorham said of Pixley, so</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I say of you: “The prison yawns before you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The turnkey stalks behind!” Now will you go?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or lag, and let that functionary floor you?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To change the metaphor⁠—you seem to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Between Judge Wallace and the deep, deep sea!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="over-the-border" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Over the Border</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O, justice, you have fled, to dwell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In Mexico, unstrangled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lest you should hang as high as⁠—well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As Haman dangled.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>(I know not if his cord be twanged,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or the King proved forgiving.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis hard to think of Haman hanged,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Haymond living.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yes, as I said: in mortal fear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To Mexico you journeyed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For you were on your trial here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And ill attorneyed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Law had long regarded you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As an extreme offender.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Religion looked upon you, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With thoughts untender.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Press to you was cold as snow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For sin you’d always call so.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Politics you were <i xml:lang="fr">de trop</i>,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In Morals also.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All this is accurately true</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And, faith! there might be more said;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But⁠—well, to save your thrapple you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fled, as aforesaid.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You’re down in Mexico⁠—that’s plain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As that the sun is risen;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Daniel Burns down there his chain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Drags round in prison.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-an-insolent-attorney" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To an Insolent Attorney</h3>
				<p>
					<span>So, Hall McAllister, you’ll not be warned⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My protest slighted, admonition scorned!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To save your scoundrel client from a cell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As loth to swallow him as he to swell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its sum of meals insurgent (it decries</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All wars intestinal with meats that rise)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You turn your scurril tongue against the press</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And damn the agency you ought to bless.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had not the press with all its hundred eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Discerned the wolf beneath the sheep’s disguise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And raised the cry upon him, he to-day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would lack your company, and you would lack his pay.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Talk not of “hire” and consciences for sale⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You whose profession ’tis to threaten, rail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Calumniate and libel at the will</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of any villain who can pay the bill⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You whose most honest dollars all were got</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By saying for a fee “the thing that’s not!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To you ’tis one, to challenge or defend;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clients are means, their money is an end.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In my profession sometimes, as in yours</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Always, a payment large enough secures</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A mercenary service to defend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The guilty or the innocent to rend.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But mark the difference, nor think it slight:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>We</em> do not hold it proper, just and right;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of selfish lies a little still we shame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And give our villainies another name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hypocrisy’s an ugly vice, no doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But blushing sinners can’t get on without.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Happy the lawyer!⁠—at his favored hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor truth nor decency the world demands.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Secure in his immunity from shame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His cheek ne’er kindles with the tell-tale flame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His brains for sale, morality for hire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In every land and century a licensed liar!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No doubt, McAllister, you can explain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How honorable ’tis to lie for gain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Provided only that the jury’s made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To understand that lying is your trade.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A hundred thousand volumes, broad and flat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(The Bible not included) proving that,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have been put forth, though still the doubt remains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If God has read them with befitting pains.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No Morrow could get justice, you’ll declare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If none who knew him foul affirmed him fair.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ingenious man! how easy ’tis to raise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An argument to justify the course that pays!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I grant you, if you like, that men may need</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The services performed for crime by greed⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grant that the perfect welfare of the State</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Requires the aid of those who in debate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As mercenaries lost in early youth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fine distinction between lie and truth⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who cheat in argument and set a snare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To take the feet of Justice unaware⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who serve with livelier zeal when rogues assist</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With perjury, embracery (the list</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is long to quote) than when an honest soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scorning to plot, conspire, intrigue, cajole,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reminds them (their astonishment how great!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’d rather suffer wrong than perpetrate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I grant, in short, ’tis better all around</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That ambidextrous consciences abound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In courts of law to do the dirty work</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That self-respecting scavengers would shirk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What then? Who serves however clean a plan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By doing dirty work, he is a dirty man!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="accepted" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Accepted</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Charles Shortridge once to <abbr>St.</abbr> Peter came.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Down!” cried the saint with his face aflame;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“ ’Tis writ that every hardy liar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall dwell forever and ever in fire!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“That’s what I said the night that I died,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sinner, turning away, replied.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“What! <em>you</em> said that?” cried the saint⁠—“what! what!</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>You</em> said ’twas so writ? Then, faith, ’tis <em>not</em>!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m a devil at quoting, but I begin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fail in my memory. Pray walk in.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-promised-fast-train" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Promised Fast Train</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I turned my eyes upon the Future’s scroll</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And saw its pictured prophecies unroll.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I saw that magical life-laden train</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flash its long glories o’er Nebraska’s plain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I saw it smoothly up the mountain glide.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“O happy, happy passengers!” I cried.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For Pleasure, singing, drowned the engine’s roar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Hope on joyous pinions flew before.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then dived the train adown the sunset slope⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pleasure was silent and unseen was Hope.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Crashes and shrieks attested the decay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That greed had wrought upon that iron way.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The rusted rails broke down the rotting ties,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And clouds of flying spikes obscured the skies.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My coward eyes I drew away, distressed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fixed them on the terminus to-West,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where soon, its melancholy tale to tell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One bloody car-wheel wabbled in and fell!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="from-the-death-column" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">From the Death-Column</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“Open wide, ye golden gates</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That lead to the heavenly shore:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our father suffered in passing through,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And mother weighs still more.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Our papa dear has gone to heaven</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make arrangements for eleven.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">“The winter’s snow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Congealed his form.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">But now we know</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Our uncle’s warm.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“We can but mourn our loss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though wretched was his life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death took him from the cross⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Erected by his wife.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Weep not, mother: little Will</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is gone to Upper Louisville.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-farmers-prayer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Farmer’s Prayer</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O Lord, incline Thine ear unto our prayer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And preachers’ intercession:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This strange discrimination is unfair⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">That’s our impression.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Our neighbors all about have copious rains</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That fall on them like manna.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Send <em>us</em> the showers, Lord, and parch the plains</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Of Indiana.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Upon the just and unjust, sayest Thou,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thou’lt sprinkle without favor.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sin of promise-breaking, all allow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Could not be graver.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We’re just, and still our whistles are not wet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And still ’tis growing hotter;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While every scamp in Michigan can get</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">His fill of water.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We ask but justice: treat us not with scorn;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our comfort make less chilly;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And those who pray for an advance in corn⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">O smite them silly!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let corn be plentiful, and cheap: our hops</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Look well without a shower;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We’ve sold our wheat: that profitable crop’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Beyond Thy power.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="one-of-the-saints" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">One of the Saints</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Big Smith is an Oakland School Board man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he looks as good as ever he can;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he’s such a cold and a chaste Big Smith</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That snowflakes all are his kin and kith.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherever his eye he chances to throw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The crystals of ice begin to grow;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the fruits and flowers he sees are lost</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the singeing touch of a sudden frost.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The women all shiver whenever he’s near,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And look upon <em>us</em> with a look austere⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Effect of the Smithian atmosphere.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such, in a word, is the moral plan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the Big, Big Smith, the School Board man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When told that Madame Ferrier had taught</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">Hernani</i> in school, his fist he brought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a trip-hammer down on his bulbous knee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he roared: “Her Nanny? By gum, we’ll see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If the public’s time she dares devote</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the educatin’ of any dam goat!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You do not entirely comprehend⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">Hernani’s</i> a play,” said his learned friend,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“By Victor Hugo⁠—immoral and bad.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What’s worse, it’s French!” “Well, well, my lad,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said Smith, “if he cuts a swath so wide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll have him took re’glar up and tried!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he smiled so sweetly the other chap</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thought that himself was a Finn or Lapp</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Caught in a storm of his native snows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a purple ear and an azure nose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Smith continued: “I never pursue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Immoral readin’.” And that is true:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’s a saint of remarkably high degree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a mind as chaste as a mind can be;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But read!⁠—the devil a word can he!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-military-incident" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Military Incident</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Dawn heralded the coming sun⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fort Douglas was computing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The minutes⁠—and the sunrise gun</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was manned for his saluting.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The gunner at that firearm stood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The which he slowly loaded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When, bang!⁠—I know not how it could,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But sure the charge exploded!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yes, to that veteran’s surprise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The gun went off sublimely,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And both his busy arms likewise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Went off with it, untimely.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then said that gunner to his mate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(He was from Ballyshannon):</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Bedad, the sun’s a minute late,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Accardin’ to this cannon!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="substance-versus-shadow" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Substance Versus Shadow</h3>
				<p>
					<span>So, gentle critics, you would have me tilt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not at the guilty, only just at Guilt!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spare the offender and condemn Offense,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And make life miserable to Pretense!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Whip Vice and Folly⁠—that is satire’s use⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But be not personal, for <em>that’s</em> abuse;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor e’er forget what, ‘like a razor keen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wounds with a touch that’s neither felt nor seen.’ ”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, friends, I venture, destitute of awe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To think that razor but an old, old saw,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A trifle rusty; and a wound, I’m sure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That’s felt not, seen not, one can well endure.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go to! go to!⁠—you’re as unfitted quite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To give advice to writers as to write.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I find in Folly and in Vice a lack</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of head to hit, and for the lash no back;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whilst Pixley has a pow that’s easy struck,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And though good Deacon Fitch (a Fitch for luck!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has none, yet, lest he go entirely free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God gave to him a corn, a heel to me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He, also, sets his face (so like a flint</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wonder grows that Pickering doesn’t skin’t)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With cold austerity, against these wars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On scamps⁠—’tis Scampery that <em>he</em> abhors!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behold advance in dignity and state⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grave, smug, serene, indubitably great⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stanford, philanthropist! One hand bestows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In alms what t’other one as justice owes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rascality attends him like a shade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But closes, woundless, o’er my baffled blade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its limbs unsevered, spirit undismayed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faith! I’m for something can be made to feel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If, like Pelides, only in the heel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fellow’s self invites assault; his crimes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will each bear killing twenty thousand times!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Anon Creed Haymond⁠—but the list is long</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of names to point the moral of my song.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rogues, fools, impostors, sycophants, they rise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They foul the earth and horrify the skies⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Huntington (sole honest man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In all the reek of that rapscallion clan)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Denouncing Theft as hard as e’er he can!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-committee-on-public-morals" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Committee on Public Morals</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Senate met in Sacramento city;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On public morals it had no committee</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though greatly these abounded. Soon the quiet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was broken by the Senators in riot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now, at the end of their contagious quarrels,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There’s a committee but no public morals.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-playwright" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Playwright</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Saint Peter, sitting at the Gate of Gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Looked idly down the cloudway and, behold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A soul ascending from this world of woe.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Head up, hands pocketed⁠—serene and bold!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>(To souls, such pockets are, I know, denied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As in the flesh we wear on either side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But the dead rich⁠—or else they wouldn’t play⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With souls of perished pockets are supplied.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Ah, Harrison,” the Saint said⁠—“William Greer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twill do you little good to come, I fear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I’ve certain crows to pick with you⁠—and, first,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You were a ‘patron of the ring,’ I hear.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nodding and smirking, said the soul: “That’s right;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nothing so charmed me as to see a fight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But pray observe that as a man of peace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Meek under challenge, I was ‘out of sight’!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To this the Saint made answer: “Although gay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You were not reckless; but, my friend, they say</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You⁠—what the devil was it that you did?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, once you wrote, I understand, a play.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“You had the right to do so, ’tis agreed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Ring and Stage are near akin, indeed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With you to write and Sullivan to act.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, sir, the play you wrote was ‘Runnmymede’!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Well?” “Worst I ever saw!” The pride alurk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In authorship flashed forth, and like a dirk</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That seeks a heart the cutting answer came:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I guess you haven’t seen my later work.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“What? you impenitent, you’ve written since?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Warder thundered, making William wince.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Only to lie about my critics, please.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of liars⁠—bar Sam Chamberlain⁠—I’m Prince!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Saint drew back his great two-handed key</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, as the nude immortal turned to flee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Swung the big engine of his holy wrath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And smote him where the back forgets to be!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All Heaven resounded with the dreadful blow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Echo babbled of it down below!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To farthest reaches of the shoreless void</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Raced the receding sound-waves of his “O!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Rubbing the part with many a grimace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He said while hurtling Sheolward through space:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Poor old Saint Peter!” and with a blue grin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Added: “That Paradise is a jay place.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-leader-of-the-minority" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Leader of the Minority</h3>
				<p>
					<span>He tolls them along through the wilderness dire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Ever in sight⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A clod by day and a pillar of fire⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Water by night.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="california" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">California</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>The Chinaman’s Assailant was allowed to walk quietly away, although the street was filled with pedestrians.</p>
						<cite>Newspaper</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Why should he not have been allowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To thread with peaceful feet the crowd</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which filled that Christian street?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Decalogue he had observed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Faith in Jesus had not swerved,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And scorning pious platitudes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He saw in the Beatitudes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A lamp to guide his feet.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He knew that Jonah downed the whale</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made no bones of it. The tale</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That Ananias told</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He swore was true. He had no doubt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Daniel laid the lions out.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In short, he had all holiness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All meekness and all lowliness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And was with saints enrolled.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Tis true, some slight excess of zeal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sincerely to promote the weal</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of this most Christian state</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had moved him rudely to divide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The queue that was a pagan’s pride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in addition certify</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Faith by making fur to fly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From pelt as well as pate?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But, Heavenly Father, thou dost know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That in this town these actions go</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For nothing worth a name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay, every editorial ass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To prove they never come to pass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will damn his soul eternally,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Although in his own journal he</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">May read the printed shame.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From bloody hands the reins of pow’r</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fall slack; the high-decisive hour</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Strikes not for liars’ ears.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remove, O Father, the disgrace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That stains our California’s face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And consecrate to human good</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The strength of her young womanhood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And all her golden years!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="george-c-perkins" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">George <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">C.</abbr> Perkins</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Running for Senator with clumsy pace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He stooped so low to win the foremost place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Fortune, tempted by a mark so droll,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sprang in and kicked him to the winning pole.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="de-young-a-prophecy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">De Young⁠—A Prophecy</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Running for Senator with clumsy pace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He stooped so low, to win at least a place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Fortune, tempted by a mark so droll,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sprang in an kicked him to the winning pole.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-either" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To Either</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">Back further than</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">I know, in San</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Francisco dwelt a wealthy man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">So rich was he</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">That none could be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wise, good and great in like degree.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">’Tis true he wrought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">In deed or thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But few of all the things he ought;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">But men said: “Who</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Would wish him to?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Great souls are born to be, not do!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">One thing, indeed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">He did, we read,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which was becoming, all agreed:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Grown provident,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Ere life was spent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He built a mighty monument.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">For longer than</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">I know, in San</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Francisco lived a beggar man;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">And when in bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">They found him dead⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Just like the scamp!” the people said.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">He died, they say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">On the same day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His wealthy neighbor passed away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">What matters it</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">When beggars quit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their beats? I answer: Not a bit.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">They got a spade</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">And pick and made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A hole, and there the chap was laid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">“He asked for bread,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">’Twas neatly said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“He’ll get not even a stone instead.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">The years rolled round:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">His humble mound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sank to the level of the ground;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">And men forgot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">That the bare spot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was like (and was) the beggar’s lot.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">Forgotten, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Was t’other, who</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had reared the monument to woo</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Inconstant Fame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Though still his name</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shouted in granite just the same.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">That name, I swear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">They both did bear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The beggar and the millionaire.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">That lofty tomb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Then, honored⁠—whom?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For argument here’s ample room.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">I’ll not debate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">But only state</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The scamp first claimed it at the Gate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3"><abbr>St.</abbr> Peter, proud</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">To serve him, bowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And showed him to the softest cloud.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="disappointment" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Disappointment</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Senate woke; the Chairman’s snore</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Was stilled, its echoes balking;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The startled members dreamed no more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Steele, who long had held the floor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Had suddenly ceased talking.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As, like Elijah, in his pride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">He to his seat was passing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Go up thou baldhead!” Reddy cried.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then six fierce bears ensued and tried</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To sunder him for “sassing.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Two seized his legs, and one his head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The fourth his trunk, to munch on;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fifth preferred an arm instead;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The last, with rueful visage, said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">“Pray what have <em>I</em> for luncheon?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then to that disappointed bear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Said Steele, serene and chipper,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“My friend, you shall not lack your share:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Look in the Treasury, and there</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">You’ll find his other flipper.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-valley-of-the-shadow-of-theft" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Valley of the Shadow of Theft</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In fair Yosemite, that den of thieves</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wherein the minions of the moon divide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The travelers’ purses, lo! the Devil grieves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His larger share as leader still denied.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>El Capitan, foreseeing that <em>his</em> reign</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">May be disputed too, beclouds his head.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The joyous Bridal Veil is torn in twain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the crêpe steamer dangles there instead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Vernal Fall abates her pleasant speed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And hesitates to take the final plunge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For rumors reach her that another greed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Awaits her in the Valley of the Sponge.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Brothers envy the accord of mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And peace of purpose (by the good deplored</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As honor among Commissioners) which bind</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That confraternity of crime, the Board.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Half-Dome bows its riven face to weep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But not, as formerly, because bereft:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prophetic dreams afflict him when asleep</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of losing his remaining half by theft.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ambitious knaves! has not the upper sod</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Enough of room for every crime that crawls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But you must loot the Palaces of God</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And daub your filthy names upon the walls?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="down-among-the-dead-men" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Down Among the Dead Men</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Within my dark and narrow bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I rested well, new-laid:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I heard above my fleshless head</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The grinding of a spade.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A gruffer note ensued and grew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To harsh and harsher strains:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The poet Welcker then I knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was “snatching” my remains.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O Welcker, let your hand be stayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And leave me here in peace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of your revenge you should have made</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">An end with my decease.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Hush, Mouldyshanks, and hear my moan:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I once, as you’re aware,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was eminent in letters⁠—known</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And honored everywhere.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“My splendor made all Berkeley bright</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Sacramento blind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men swore no writer e’er could write</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like me⁠—if I’d a mind.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“With honors all insatiate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With curst ambition smit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Too far, alas! I tempted fate⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I <em>published</em> what I’d writ!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Good Heaven! with what a hunger wild</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Oblivion swallows fame!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men who have known me from a child</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Forget my very name!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Even creditors with searching looks</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My face cannot recall;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My heaviest one⁠—he prints my books⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Oblivious most of all.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O I should feel a sweet content</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If one poor dun his claim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would bring to me for settlement,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And bully me by name.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“My dog is at my gate forlorn;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It howls through all the night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when I greet it in the morn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It answers with a bite!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O Poet, what in Satan’s name</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To me’s all this ado?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will snatching me restore the fame</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That printing snatched from you?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Peace, dread Remains; I’m not about</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To do a deed of sin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I come not here to hale you out⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I’m trying to get in.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-last-man" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Last Man</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I dreamed that Gabriel took his horn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On Resurrection’s fateful morn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lighting upon Laurel Hill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blew long, blew loud, blew high and shrill.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The houses compassing the ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rattled their windows at the sound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But no one rose. “Alas!” said he,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“What lazy bones these mortals be!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Again he plied the horn, again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deflating both his lungs in vain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then stood astonished and chagrined</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At raising nothing but the wind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At last he caught the tranquil eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of an observer standing by⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Last of mankind, not doomed to die.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To him thus Gabriel: “Sir, I pray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This mystery you’ll clear away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why do I sound my note in vain?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why spring they not from out the plain?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where’s Luning, Blythe and Michael Reese,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Magee, who ran the <i epub:type="se:name">Golden Fleece?</i></span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where’s Asa Fisk? Jim Phelan, who</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was thought to know a thing or two</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of land which rose but never sank?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where’s Con O’Conor of the Bank,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all who consecrated lands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of old by laying on of hands?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I ask of them because their worth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was known in all they wished⁠—the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brisk boomers once, alert and wise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why don’t they rise, why don’t they rise?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The man replied: “Reburied long</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With others of the shrouded throng</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In San Mateo⁠—carted there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dumped promiscuous, anywhere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In holes and trenches⁠—all misfits⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mixed up with one another’s bits:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One’s back-bone with another’s shin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A third one’s skull with a fourth one’s grin⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your eye was never, never fixed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon a company so mixed!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go now among them there and blow:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twill be as good as any show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see them, when they hear the tones,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Compiling one another’s bones!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But here ’tis vain to sound and wait:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Naught rises here but real estate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I own it all and shan’t disgorge.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don’t know me? I am Henry George.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="arbor-day" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Arbor Day</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Hasten, children, black and white⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Celebrate the yearly rite.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every pupil plant a tree:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It will grow some day to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Big and strong enough to bear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A School Director hanging there.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-piute" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Piute</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Unbeautiful is the Piute!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Howe’er bedecked with bravery,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His person is unsavory⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of soap he’s destitute.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He multiplies upon the earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In spite of all admonishing;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All censure his astonishing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And versatile unworth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Upon the Reservation wide</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We give for his inhabiting</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He goes a-jackass rabbiting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To furnish his inside.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The hopper singing in the grass</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He seizes with avidity:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He loves its tart acidity,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gobbles all that pass.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He penetrates the spider’s veil,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Industriously pillages</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The toads’ defenseless villages,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shadows home the snail.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He lightly runs to earth the quaint</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Red worm and, deftly troweling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He makes it with his boweling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Familiarly acquaint.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He tracks the pine-nut to its lair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Surrounds it with celerity,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Regards it with asperity⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Smiles, and it isn’t there!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I wish he’d open up a grin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of adequate vivacity</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And carrying capacity</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To take his Agent in.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="fame-2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Fame</h3>
				<p>
					<span>He held a book in his knotty paws,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And its title grand read he:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The Chronicles of the Kings” it was,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By the History Companee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I’m a monarch,” he said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(But a tear he shed)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“And my picter here you see.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Great and lasting is my renown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">However the wits may flout⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As wide almost as this blessed town”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(But he winced as if with gout).</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I paid ’em like sin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For to put me in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But it’s O, and O, to be out!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="one-of-the-redeemed" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">One of the Redeemed</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Saint Peter, standing at the Gate, beheld</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A soul whose body Death had lately felled.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A pleasant soul as ever was, he seemed:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His step was joyous and his visage beamed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Good morning, Peter.” There was just a touch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of foreign accent, but not overmuch.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Saint bent gravely, like a stately tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And said: “You have the advantage, sir, of me.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Rinan of Paris,” said the immortal part⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“A master of the literary art.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I’m somewhat famous, too, I grieve to tell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As controversialist and infidel.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“That’s of no consequence,” the Saint replied,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Why, I myself my Master once denied.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“No one up here cares anything for that.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But is there nothing you were always at?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“It seems to me you were accused one day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of <em>something</em>⁠—what it was I can’t just say.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Quite likely,” said the other; “but I swear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My life was irreproachable and fair.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Just then a soul appeared upon the wall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Singing a hymn as loud as he could bawl.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>About his head a golden halo gleamed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As well befitted one of the redeemed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A harp he bore and vigorously thumbed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strumming he sang, and, singing, ever strummed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His countenance, suffused with holy pride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Glowed like a pumpkin with a light inside.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Ah! that’s the chap,” said Peter, “who declares:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Rinan’s a rake and drunkard⁠—smokes and swears.’</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Yes, that’s the fellow⁠—he’s a preacher⁠—came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From San Francisco. Mansfield was his name.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Do you believe him?” said Rinan. “Great Scott!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Believe? Believe the blackguard? Of course <em>not!</em></span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Just walk right in and make yourself at home.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And if he pecks at you I’ll cut his comb.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“He’s only here because the Devil swore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He wouldn’t have him, for the smile he wore.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Resting his eyes one moment on that proof</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of saving grace, the Frenchman turned aloof,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And stepping down from cloud to cloud, said he:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Thank you, monsieur⁠—I’ll see if he’ll have <em>me</em>.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-critic" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">A Critic</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>Apparently the Cleveland <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Leader</i> is not a good judge of poetry.</p>
						<cite>
							<i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">The Morning Call</i>
						</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>That from <em>you</em>, neighbor! to whose vacant lot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Each rhyming literary knacker scourges</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His cart-compelling Pegasus to trot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As folly, fame or famine smartly urges?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Admonished by the stimulating goad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How gaily, lo! the spavined crow-bait prances⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its cart before it⁠—eager to unload</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The dead-dog sentiments and swill-tub fancies.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Gravely the sweating scavenger pulls out</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The tail-board of his curst imagination,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shoots all his rascal rubbish, and, no doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thanks Fortune for so good a dumping-station.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To improve your property, the vile cascade</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your thrift invites⁠—to make a higher level.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In vain: with tons of garbage overlaid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your baseless bog sinks slowly to the devil.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Rubbish may be shot here”⁠—familiar sign!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I seem to see it in your every column.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You have your wishes, but if I had mine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">’Twould to your editor mean something solemn.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-question-of-eligibility" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Question of Eligibility</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It was a bruised and battered chap</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The victim of some dire mishap,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who sat upon a rock and spent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His breath in this ungay lament:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Some wars⁠—I’ve frequent heard of such⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has beat the everlastin’ Dutch!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But never fight was fit by man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To equal this which has began</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In our (I’m in it, if you please)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Academy of Sciences.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For there is various gents belong</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To it which go persistent wrong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And loving the debates’ delight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Calls one another names at sight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their disposition, too, accords</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With fighting like they all was lords!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sech impulses should be withstood:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis scientific to be good.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“ ’Twas one of them, one night last week,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rose up his figure for to speak:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Please, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Chair, I’m holding here</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A resolution which, I fear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some ancient fossils that has bust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their cases and shook off their dust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To sit as Members here will find</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unpleasant, not to say unkind.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then he read it every word,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And silence fell on all which heard.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That resolution, wild and strange,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Proposed a fundamental change,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which was that idiots no more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could join us as they had before!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“No sooner was he seated than</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The members rose up, to a man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each chap was primed with a reply</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tried to snatch the Chairman’s eye.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They stomped and shook their fists in air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, O, what words was uttered there!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“The Chair was silent, but at last</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He hove up his proportions vast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stilled them tumults with a look</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By which the undauntedest was shook.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He smiled sarcastical and said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘If Argus was the Chair, instead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of me, he’d lack enough of eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each orator to recognize!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And since, denied a hearing, you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Might maybe undertake to do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each other harm before you cease,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve took some steps to keep the peace:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve ordered out⁠—alas, alas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Science e’er to such a pass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should come!⁠—I’ve ordered out⁠—the gas!’</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O if a tongue or pen of fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was mine I could not tell entire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What the ensuin’ actions was.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When swollered up in darkness’ jaws</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We fit and fit and fit and fit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And everything we felt we hit!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We gouged, we scratched and we pulled hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And O, what words was uttered there!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when at last the day dawn came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Three hundred Scientists was lame;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two hundred others couldn’t stand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They’d been so careless handled, and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One thousand at the very least</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was spread upon the floor deceased!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twere easy to exaggerate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But lies is things I mortal hate.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Such, friends, is the disaster sad</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which has befel the Cal. Acad.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now the question is of more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Importance than it was before:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall vacancies among us be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To idiots threw open free?”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="fleet-strother" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Fleet Strother</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What! you were born, you animated doll,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within the shadow of the Capitol?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas always thought (and Bancroft so assures</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His trusting readers) it was reared in yours.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="reciprocity" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Reciprocity</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The night was dark, the way was steep:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I scarcely, for fatigue, could creep.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Fatigue, begone!” I cried. Not so;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It tarried and would not bego.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>At length the last wan glimmer died,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of hope that lit up my inside.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I let go all, and thought to sink</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Back, headlong, from the mountain’s brink.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But ere I fell my startled eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beheld a wonder in the skies.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I grasped again a friendly tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To stay me till I more could see.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>(When shows are free that men admire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis most unthrifty to expire.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Seven clustered planets rose as one;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their light was like another sun!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Straight upward to the zenith they,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without defection, held their way.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then paused, revealing with their light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A massive building on the height.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Before my very eyes its face</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It reared; my feet were at its base.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And well I knew that I had clomb</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Lick’s renowned memorial dome,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where Holden’s mammoth tube betrays</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stellar gambols to his gaze.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With lifted brow and heart elate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I entered by the stranger’s gate.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Smit with a reverential awe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The great man’s figure there I saw.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He sat bolt upright in a chair⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Legs crossed, arms folded and head bare.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No king that I had ever seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Nor surely any jack nor queen)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Had ever on a golden throne</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With such a gracious aspect shone.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The giant telescope, reversed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seemed diving from the sky head first!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Its broader end remained at rest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within two yards of Holden’s breast.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O mighty scientist,” I cried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Let me beneath this dome abide.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“The night is bad, and o’er your roof</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seven crazy planets are aloof.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“The trails are terrors to my shanks;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I dread the planetary pranks!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He deigned no word, but gave the nod.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That sign of an assenting god.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Meantime the telescope’s great eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With splendor smote him, hip and thigh.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It seethed him in a lambent light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sharp, searching, glorious and white!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Illustrious man,” I said again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“This mystery I pray explain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Why is the glass reversed, and why</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are you in session ’neath its eye?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“ ’Tis little that I know of stars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Venus is to me as Mars;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“But, pardon me, I know aright</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How gentlemen should pass the night.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That great professor smiled, and O,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The smile was light and cold as snow!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Know, then,” he said “that what you view</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is payment of a debt long due.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“For years I’ve watched the planets roll.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And mapped the stars from pole to pole.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“ ’Tis true I once, the people say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Charted the lights of San Jose,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“But, generally speaking, I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can tell the valley from the sky.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Those planets up in Heaven’s high cope</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I long have studied through the ’scope.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Fair play’s a jewel, and to-night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their observation I invite.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I turn the tube and, as you see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Permit them now to study Me.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Next morn as on my way I sped,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I’ve seen a just, good man,” I said.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="californian-summer-pictures" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Californian Summer Pictures</h3>
				<section id="californian-summer-pictures-1">
					<h4 epub:type="title">The Foot-Hill Resort</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Assembled in the parlor</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of the place of last resort,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The smiler and the snarler</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the guests of every sort⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The elocution chap</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With rhetoric on tap;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The mimic and the funny dog;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The social sponge; the money-hog;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Vulgarian and dude;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the prude;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The adiposing dame</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">With pimply face aflame;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The kitten-playful virgin⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Vergin’ on to fifty years;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The solemn-looking sturgeon</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of a firm of auctioneers;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The widower flirtatious;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The widow all too gracious;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The man with a proboscis and a sepulcher beneath.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>One assassin picks the banjo, and another picks his teeth.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="californian-summer-pictures-2">
					<h4 epub:type="title">At Anchor</h4>
					<p>
						<span>The soft asphaltum in the sun;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Betrays a tendency to run;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whereas the dog that takes his way</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Across its course concludes to stay.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="californian-summer-pictures-3">
					<h4 epub:type="title">The In-Coming Climate</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Now o’ nights the ocean breeze</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Makes the patient flinch,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For that zephyr bears a sneeze</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">In every cubic inch.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lo! the lively population</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Chorusing in sternutation</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A catarrhal acclamation!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="californian-summer-pictures-4">
					<h4 epub:type="title">A Long-Felt Want</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Dimly apparent, through the gloom</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Market-street’s opaque simoom,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A queue of people, parti-sexed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Awaiting the command of “Next!”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A sidewalk booth, a dingy sign:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Teeth dusted nice⁠—five cents a shine.”</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="californian-summer-pictures-5">
					<h4 epub:type="title">To the Happy Hunting Grounds</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Wide windy reaches of high stubble field;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A long gray road, bordered with dusty pines;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A wagon moving in a “cloud by day.”</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Two city sportsmen with a dove between,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Breast-high upon a fence and fast asleep⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A solitary dove, the only dove</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In twenty counties, and it sick, or else</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It were not there. Two guns that fire as one,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With thunder simultaneous and loud;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Two shattered human wrecks of blood and bone!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And later, in the gloaming, comes a man⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The worthy local coroner is he,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Renowned all thereabout, and popular</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With many a remain. All tenderly</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Compiling in a game-bag the dibris,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He glides into the gloom and fades from sight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The dove, cured of its ailment by the shock,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Has flown, meantime, on pinions strong and fleet,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To die of age in some far foreign land.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="slander" epub:type="z3998:drama">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Slander</h3>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Fitch</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>“All vices you’ve exhausted, friend;</span>
									<br/>
									<span class="i1">So all the papers say.”</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pickering</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>“Ah, what vile calumnies are penned!⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span class="i1">’Tis just the other way.”</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</article>
			<article id="james-l-flood" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">James <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">L.</abbr> Flood</h3>
				<p>
					<span>As oft it happens in the youth of day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That mists obscure the sun’s imperfect ray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who, as he’s mounting to the dome’s extreme,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Smites and dispels them with a steeper beam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So you the vapors that begirt your birth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Consumed, and manifested all your worth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But still one early vice obstructs the light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sullies all the visible and bright</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Display of mind and character. You write.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="three-candidates-for-senator" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Three Candidates for Senator</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To flatter your way to the goad of your hope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O plausible <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Perkins,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’ll need ten tons of the softest soap</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And butter a thousand firkins.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soap you could put to a better use</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In washing your hands of ambition</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere the butter’s used for cooking your goose</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To a beautiful brown condition.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“The Railroad can’t run Stanford.” That is so⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The tail can’t curl the pig; but then, you know,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inside the vegetable-garden’s pale</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The pig will eat more cabbage than the tail.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When Sargent struts by all the lawmakers say:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Right⁠—left!” It is fair to infer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The right will get left, nor polar the day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When he makes that thing to occur.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Not so, not so, ’tis a joke, that cry⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Foolish and dull and small:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He so bores them for votes that they mean to imply</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He’s a drill-Sargent, that is all.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Gods! what a sight! Astride McClure’s broad back</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Estee jogs round the Senatorial track,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The crowd all undecided, as they pass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whether to cheer the man or cheer the ass.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They stop: the man to lower his feet is seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the tired beast, withdrawing from between,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mounts, as they start again, the biped’s neck,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And scarce the crowd can say which one’s on deck.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-growler" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Growler</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Judge Shafter, you’re an aged man, I know,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And learned too, I doubt not, in the law;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a head white with many a winter’s snow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(I wish, however that your heart would thaw)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Claims reverence and honor; but the jaw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That’s always wagging with a word malign,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nagging and scolding every one in sight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As harshly as a jaybird in a pine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And with as little sense of wrong and right</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As animates that irritable creature,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is not a very venerable feature.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You damn all witnesses, all jurors too</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(And swear at the attorneys, I suppose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But <em>that’s</em> commendable) “till all is blue”;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And what it’s all about, the good Lord knows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Not you; but all the hotter, fiercer glows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your wrath for that⁠—as dogs the louder howl</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With only moonshine to incite their rage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bears with more ferocious menace growl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Even when their food is flung into the cage.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reform, your Honor, and forbear to curse us.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lest all men, hearing you, cry: “<i xml:lang="la">Ecce ursus!</i>”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ad-moodium" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Ad Moodium</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Tut! Moody, do not try to show</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To gentlemen and ladies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That if they have not “Faith,” they’ll go</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Headlong to Hades.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Faith is belief; and how can I</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Have that by being willing?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This dime I cannot, though I try,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Believe a shilling.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Perhaps you can. If so, pray do⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Believe you own it, also.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But what seems evidence to you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I may not call so.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Heaven knows I’d like the Faith to think</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This little vessel’s contents</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are liquid gold. I see ’tis ink</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">For writing nonsense.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Minds prone to Faith, however, may</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Come now and then to sorrow:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They put their trust in truth to-day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">In lies to-morrow.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No doubt the happiness is great</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To think as one would wish to;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But not to swallow every bait,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">As certain fish do.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To think a snake a cord, I hope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Would bolden and delight me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But some day I might think a rope</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Would chase and bite me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Curst Reason! Faith forever blest!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You’re crying all the season.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, who decides that Faith is best?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Why, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Reason.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He’s right or wrong; he answers you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">According to your folly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And says what you have taught him to,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Like any polly.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-spade" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">A Spade</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>The spade that was used to turn the first sod in the construction of the Central Pacific Railroad is to be exhibited at the New Orleans Exposition.</p>
						<cite>Press Telegram</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Precursor of our woes, historic spade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What dismal records burn upon thy blade!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On thee I see the maculating stains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of passengers’ commingled blood and brains.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In this red rust a widow’s curse appears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And here an orphan tarnished thee with tears.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon thy handle sanguinary bands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reveal the clutching of thine owner’s hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When first he wielded thee with vigor brave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To cut a sod and dig a people’s grave⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(For they who are debauched are dead and ought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In God’s name, to be hid from sight and thought.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within thee, as within a magic glass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I seem to see a foul procession pass⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Judges with ermine dragging in the mud</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And spotted here and there with guiltless blood;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gold-greedy legislators jingling bribes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kept editors and sycophantic scribes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Liars in swarms and plunderers in tribes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They fade away before the night’s advance,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fancy figures thee a devil’s lance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gleaming portentous through the misty shade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While ghosts of murdered virtues shriek about my blade!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-van-nessiad" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Van Nessiad</h3>
				<p>
					<span>From end to end, thine avenue, Van Ness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rang with the cries of battle and distress!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brave lungs were thundering with dreadful sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And perspiration smoked along the ground!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing, heavenly muse, to ears of mortal clay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The meaning, cause and finish of the fray.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Great Porter Ashe (invoking first the gods,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who signed their favor with assenting nods</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That snapped off half their heads⁠—their necks grown dry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since last the nectar cup went circling by)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Resolved to build a stable on his lot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His neighbors fiercely swearing he should not.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said he: “I build that stable!” “No, you don’t,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said they. “I can!” “You can’t!” “I will!” “You won’t!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“By heaven!” he swore; “not only will I build,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But purchase donkeys till the place is filled!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Needless expense,” they sneered in tones of ice⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The owner’s self, if lodged there, would suffice.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For three long months the awful war they waged:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With women, women, men with men engaged,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While roaring babes and shrilling poodles raged!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Jove, from Olympus, where he still maintains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His ancient session (with rheumatic pains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Touched by his long exposure) marked the strife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Interminable but by loss of life;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For malediction soon exhausts the breath⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If not, old age itself is certain death.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo! he holds high in heaven the fatal beam;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A golden pan depends from each, extreme;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This feels of Porter’s fate the downward stress,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That bears the destiny of all Van Ness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alas! the rusted scales, their life all gone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deliver judgment neither pro nor con:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dooms hang level and the war goes on.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a divine, contemptuous disesteem</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jove dropped the pans and kicked, himself, the beam:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, to decide the strife, with ready wit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The nickel that he did not care for it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Twirled absently, remarking: “See it spin:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Head, Porter loses; tail, the others win.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The conscious nickel, charged with doom, spun round,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Portentously and made a ringing sound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, staggering beneath its load of fate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sank rattling, died at last and lay in state.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Jove scanned the disk and then, as is his wont,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Raised his considering orbs, exclaiming: “Front!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With leisurely alacrity approached</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The herald god, to whom his mind he broached:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“In San Francisco two belligerent Powers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such as contended round great Ilion’s towers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fight for a stable, though in either class</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There’s not a horse, and but a single ass.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Achilles Ashe, with formidable jaw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Assails a Trojan band with fierce hee-haw,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Firing the night with brilliant curses. They</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With dark vituperation gloom the day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fate, against which nor gods nor men compete,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Decrees their victory and his defeat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With haste, good Mercury, betake thee hence</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And salivate him till he has no sense!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sheer downward shot the messenger afar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trailing a splendor like a falling star!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With dimming lustre through the air he burned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vanished, nor till another sun returned.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sovereign of the gods superior smiled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beaming benignant, fatherly and mild:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Is Destiny’s decree performed, my lad?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And has he now no sense?” “Ah, sire, he never had.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-fish-commissioner" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Fish Commissioner</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Great Joseph <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">D.</abbr> Redding⁠—illustrious name!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Considered a fish-horn the trumpet of Fame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That goddess was angry, and what do you think?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her trumpet she filled with a gallon of ink,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all through the Press, with a devilish glee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She sputtered and spattered the name of <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">J. D.</abbr></span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-stray-dog" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To a Stray Dog</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Well, Towser (I’m thinking your name must be Towser),</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You’re a decentish puppy as puppy dogs go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For you never, I’m sure, could have dined upon trowser,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And your tail’s unimpeachably curled just so.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But, dear me! your name⁠—if ’tis yours⁠—is a “poser”:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Its meaning I cannot get anywise at,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When spoken correctly perhaps it is Toser,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And means one who toses. Max Muller, how’s that?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I ne’er was ingenious at all at divining</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A word’s prehistorical, primitive state,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or finding its root, like a mole, by consigning</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Its bloom to the turnep-top’s sorrowful fate.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And, now that I think of it well, I’m no nearer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The riddle’s solution than ever⁠—for how’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My pretty invented word, “tose,” any clearer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In point of its signification than “towse”?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So, Towser (or Toser), I mean to rename you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In honor of some good and eminent man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the light and the heat of whose quickening fame you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">May grow to an eminent dog if you can.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In sunshine like his you’ll not long be a croucher:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Senate shall hear you⁠—for that I will vouch.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come here, sir. Stand up. I rechristen you Goucher.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But damn you! I’ll shoot you if ever you gouch!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-his-hand" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">In His Hand</h3>
				<p>
					<span>De Young (in Chicago the story is told)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Took his life in his hand,” like a warrior bold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stood before Buckley⁠—who thought him behind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Buckley, the man-eating monster is blind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Count fairly the ballots!” so rang the demand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the gallant De Young, with his life in his hand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis done, and the struggle is ended. No more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He havocs the battle-field, gilt with the gore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of slain reputations. No more he defies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His “lying opponents” with deadlier lies.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His trumpet is hushed and his belt is unbound⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His enemies’ characters cumber the ground.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They bloat on the war-plain with ink all asoak,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fortunate candidates perching to croak.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No more he will charge, with a daring divine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His foes with corruption, his friends by the line.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The thunders are stilled of the horrid campaign,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>De Young is triumphant, and never again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will he need, with his life in his hand, to roar:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Count fair or, by G⁠⸺, I will die on your floor!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His life has been spared, for his sins to atone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the hand that he took it in washed with cologne.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-demagogue" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Demagogue</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">“Yawp, yawp, yawp!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Under the moon and sun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">It’s aye the rabble,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And I to gabble,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hey! for the tale that is never done.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">“Chant, chant, chant!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To woo the reluctant vote.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I would I were dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And my say were said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my song were sung to its ultimate note.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">“Stab, stab, stab!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah! the weapon between my teeth⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I’m sick of the flash of it;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">See how the slash of it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Misses the foeman to mangle the sheath!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">“Boom, boom, boom!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m beating the mammoth drum.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My nethermost tripes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I blow into the pipes⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s oh! for the honors that never come!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">’Twas the dolorous blab</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of a tramping “scab”⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">’Twas the eloquent Swift</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of the marvelous gift⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wild, weird, wonderful gift of gab!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ignis-fatuus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Ignis Fatuus</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Weep, weep, each loyal partisan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For Buckley, king of hearts;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A most accomplished man; a man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of parts⁠—of foreign parts.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Long years he ruled with gentle sway,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor grew his glory dim;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he would be with us to-day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If we were but with him.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Men wondered at his going off</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In such a sudden way;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas thought, as he had come to scoff</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He would remain to prey.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Since he is gone we’re all agreed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That he is what men call</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A crook: his very steps, indeed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are bent⁠—to Montreal.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So let our tears unhindered flow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our sighs and groans have way:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It matters not how much we Oh!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The devil is to pay.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="from-top-to-bottom" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">From Top to Bottom</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>Japan has 73,759 Buddhist priests, “most of whom,” says a Christian missionary, “are grossly ignorant, and many of them lead scandalous lives.”</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>O Buddha, had you but foreknown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The vices of your priesthood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It would have made you twist and moan</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As any wounded beast would.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You would have damned the entire lot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And turned a Christian, would you not?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There were no Christians, I’ll allow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In your day; that would only</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have brought distinction. Even now</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A Christian might feel lonely.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All take the name, but facts are things</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As stubborn as the will of kings.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The priests were ignorant and low</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When ridiculed by Lucian;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The records, could we read, might show</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The same of times Confucian.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet the fact I can’t disguise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Deacon Rankin’s good and wise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Tis true he is not quite a priest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor more than half a preacher;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But he exhorts as loud at least</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As any living creature.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when the plate is passed about</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He never takes a penny out.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From Buddha down to Rankin! There⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I never did intend to.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This pen’s a buzzard’s quill, I swear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Such subjects to descend to.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When from the humming-bird I’ve wrung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A plume I’ll write of Mike de Young.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-idler" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Idler</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Who told Creed Haymond he was witty?⁠—who</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had nothing better in this world to do?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could no greased pig’s appeal to his embrace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kindle his ardor for the friendly chase?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did no dead dog upon a vacant lot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bloated and bald, or curdled in a clot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stir his compassion and inspire his arms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hide from human eyes its faded charms?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If not to works of piety inclined,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then recreation might have claimed his mind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The harmless game that shows the feline greed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To cinch the shorts and make the market bleed<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-3" id="noteref-3" epub:type="noteref">3</a></span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is better sport than victimizing Creed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a far livelier satisfaction comes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of knowing Simon, autocrat of thumbs.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-4" id="noteref-4" epub:type="noteref">4</a></span>
					<br/>
					<span>If neither worthy work nor play command</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This gentleman of leisure’s heart and hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then Mammon might his idle spirit lift</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By hope of profit to some deed of thrift.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is there no cheese to pare, no flint to skin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No tin to mend, no glass to be put in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No housewife worthy of a morning visit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her rags and sacks and bottles to solicit?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo! the blind sow’s precarious pursuit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the aspiring oak’s familiar fruit!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twould more advantage any man to steal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This easy victim’s undefended meal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than tell Creed Haymond he has wit, and so</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Expose the state to his narcotic flow!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-dead-king" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Dead King</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Hawaii’s King resigned his breath⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our Legislature guffawed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The awful dignity of death</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Not any single rough awed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But when our Legislators die</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All Kings, Queens, Jacks and Aces cry.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-patter-song" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Patter Song</h3>
				<p>
					<span>There was a cranky Governor⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His name it wasn’t Waterman.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For office he was hotter than</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The love of any lover, nor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was Boruck’s threat of aiding him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Effective in dissuading him⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This pig-headed, big-headed, singularly self-conceited Governor Nonwaterman.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To citrus fairs, <i xml:lang="la">et cetera</i>,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He went about philandering,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To pride of parish pandering.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He knew not any better⁠—ah,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His early education had</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not taught the abnegation fad⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The wool-witted, bull-witted, fabulously feeble-minded king of gabble-gandering!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He conjured up, <i xml:lang="la">ad libitum</i>,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With postures energetical,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">One day (this is prophetical)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His graces, to exhibit ’em.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He straddled in each attitude,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Four parallels of latitude⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The slab-footed, crab-footed, galloping gregarian, of presence unfsthetical!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An ancient cow, perceiving that</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His powers of agility</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Transcended her ability</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(A circumstance for grieving at)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon her horns engrafted him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to the welkin wafted him⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The high-rolling, sky-rolling, hurtling hallelujah-lad of peerless volatility!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-caller" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Caller</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“Why, Goldenson, you’re looking very well.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Said Death as, strolling through the County Jail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He entered that serene assassin’s cell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And hung his hat and coat upon a nail.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I think that life in this secluded spot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Agrees with men of your trade, does it not?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Well, yes,” said Goldenson, “I can’t complain:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Life anywhere⁠—provided it is mine⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Agrees with me; but I observe with pain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That still the people murmur and repine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It hurts their sense of harmony, no doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see a persecuted man grow stout.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O no, ’tis not your growing stout,” said Death,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Which makes these malcontents complain and scold⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They like you to be, somehow, scant of breath.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What they object to is your growing old.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And⁠—though indifferent to lean or fat⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I don’t myself entirely favor <em>that</em>.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With brows that met above the orbs beneath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And nose that like a soaring hawk appeared,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lifted lip, uncovering his teeth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Mamikellikiller coldly sneered:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“O, so you don’t! Well, how will you assuage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your spongy passion for the blood of age?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Death with a clattering convulsion, drew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His coat on, hatted his unmeated pow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unbarred the door and, stepping partly through,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Turned and made answer: “I will <em>show</em> you how.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m going to the Bench you call Supreme</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tap the old women who sit there and dream.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-shafter-shafted" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Shafter Shafted</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Well, James McMillan Shafter, you’re a Judge⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At least you were when last I knew of you;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And if the people since have made you budge</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I did not notice it. I’ve much to do</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Without endeavoring to follow, through</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The miserable squabbles, dust and smudge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fate of even the veteran contenders</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who fight with flying colors and suspenders.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Being a Judge, ’tis natural and wrong</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That you should villify the public press⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save while you are a candidate. That song</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is easy quite to sing, and I confess</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It wins applause from hearers who have less</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of spiritual graces than belong</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To audiences of another kidney⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men, for example, like Sir Philip Sidney.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Newspapers, so you say, don’t always treat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Judges with respect. That may be so</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And still no harm done, for I swear I’ll eat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My legs and in the long hereafter go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Snake-like, upon my belly if you’ll show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All Judges are respectable and sweet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For some of them are rogues and the world’s laughter’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Directed at some others, for they’re Shafters.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-one-out-of-favor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To One Out of Favor</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Attention, Miles! You have observed, no doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That General Sam Young is “fired out”;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That is to say, retired for age. Just so;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You were yourself retired not long ago⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just “cast as rubbish to the void” (for such</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is Law’s demand)⁠—alighting where ’tis much</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Too cold for comfort. There you may be found</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Piled up on Fame’s eternal dumping-ground.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If you’ve a memory you still can tell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yourself how singularly hard you fell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And no one “kissed the place to make it well.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I know not (<abbr>Mr.</abbr> Root knows little else)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why Sam should fare so better far than Nelse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But so he did, for scarcely did he light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Secretary gripped him tight,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Stood him erect, removed his coat and shirt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, finding on his person where it hurt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Performed, in pity for his hapless plight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The appropriate consolatory rite.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Miles, you are lucky! True, you’re badly bruised,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wound administered, the balm refused;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But if too rashly you had dared to strip</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your aching back for the official lip,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Consider the temptation (none can fight it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who has Administration teeth) to bite it!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="privation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Privation</h3>
				<p>
					<span>With her grief the widow was so engrossed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As she rode at the hearse’s rear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I really think the dead man’s ghost</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Must have shed the ghost of a tear.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She murmured and moaned and wiped her eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And blew her pale nose for relief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then started and cried, as in pained surprise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“I’ve forgotten my handkerchief!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O, what shall I do when we get to the grave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the coffin is put in the ground?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know I shall weep, for I cannot be brave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With those staring people all round.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Be calm,” said one; “there is nothing forgot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For your handkerchief you bring’⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You are holding it⁠—see.” Said the widow: “What!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This pokey old linen thing?”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-one-in-custody" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To One in Custody</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Villain! for years you’ve plied your awful trade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For wife, for widow and⁠—no, not for maid:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even you’ll confess in chastity one true</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Advantage⁠—its immunity from you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About your hand, in clamorous appeal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As round the blade of Calmar, shriek and wheel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like flights of Arctic seabirds, the forlorn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pale ghosts⁠—mothers and babes unborn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now, villain, now, I pray your time has come⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mercy be deaf and intercession dumb!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No more, red-handed, in the path to life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May you be found alurk with eager knife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor longer o’er the door to death display</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sign, “For Ladies.” Lo! day after day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For twenty years I’ve read on every wall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A handwriting prophetic of your fall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now the last dread syllable I spell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That damns your body to a felon’s cell⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your soul has long awaited you in Hell!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="for-a-revised-version" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">For a Revised Version</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Oh, deem it not presumption, Lord,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In me to revise Thy holy Word⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No jot or tittle I’d efface,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No menace dire, nor pledge of grace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No poetry I’d blot (although it’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well known to Thee that I hate poets),</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But humbly, reverently try</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some missing mandates to supply.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For lo! I fall of dunces ill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who’ve got by heart Thy written will;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I turn, behold! in tears away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From rogues Thy bidding who obey.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherever “Thou shalt not” occurs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’d add “Thou shalt the exact reverse,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And many a virtue, too, compel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(By plain command and threat of hell)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which has no corresponding vice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To interdict in terms precise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus I’d exterminate the brood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of rascals negatively good⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men Bible-clear, who ought to smart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath the lash at tail of cart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each soul (masks, too, would then be thinner)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If not a saint, should be a sinner.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In error. Lord, if I am found,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Observe how clouds my vision bound:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forgive my narrowness of sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bless me with the larger light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Thine imperfect law to trace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The perfect purpose of Thy grace.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-mormon-question" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">The Mormon Question</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>By J-qu-n M-ll-r</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>I said I will shake myself out of my clothes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I will roll up my sleeves, I will spit on my hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(The hands that I kissed to the sun in the lands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the north, to the east, to the south, and the west</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of every sea that is under the sun),</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I will go to the land that the Gentile loathes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As he gathers his one small wife to his breast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And curses and loathes till his life is done.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I will go to the place of the Mormon: the place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the jackass rabbit is first in the race</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the woodchuck chatters in meaningless glee⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chatters and twists all his marvelous face⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Twists it and chatters and looks like me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I rose in the strongest strength of my strength,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With my breast of brass and my hair’s full length,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I shook myself out of my clothes in the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the Mormons, and stood there and kissed my hand.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-election-expense" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Election Expense</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Stanford, when recently you gave Tom Fitch</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ten thousand dollars, gold, to “stump the State”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(A circumstance of no importance, which</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You deemed it right, however, to relate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the grand jury) did you calculate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That it and other sums, which I will not</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Embarrass you by naming, would come back,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As bread upon the waters, piping hot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With added pancakes in an ample stack?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twere better, sir, to cast your bread-and-butter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(You’d get that back, at least) into the gutter.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Tom Fitch’s “silver tongue” is very well</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If let alone⁠—though that he’ll never do.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For he must live by what he has to sell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And silver should be “free,” that’s very true.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But how the devil could the thing help you?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like an unruly child, it kicks and squalls</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In mutiny whene’er he moves his chin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ne’er is faithful except when he falls</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Asleep in Je⁠—I mean, of course, in Gin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tom’s tongue make Senators? No, no, that’s gammon;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They’re made by <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Stow and <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Mammon.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I know they are, for once I saw the two</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hobnobbing in a friendly kind of way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up there at Sacramento. It is true</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You were not with them. I heard statesmen say</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You took good care to tarry at the Bay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where you could be “surprised” when Creed should claim</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your ear, and hope you’d pardon him, and sigh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And say he’d ventured to propose your name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And that all men had thrown their hats so high</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That none had yet come down, and split their collars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With cheers, and⁠—would you loan him twenty dollars?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A famous person said that God and he</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Were a majority; so, by your leave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are you and Mammon; but it seems to me</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That you and he on this Thanksgiving eve</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Should drink a stirrup-cup (for I perceive</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You ride your philanthropic hobby⁠—Ned</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Curtis astride behind you) and so part.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For, after all is done and all is said.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Mammon &amp; Stanford are not over-smart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The firm’s an old one, but not quite respected</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since you in statesmanship have been detected.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="william-f-smith" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">William <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">F.</abbr> Smith</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Light lie the earth upon his dear dead heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And dreams disturb him never.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be deeper peace than Paradise his part</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Forever and forever.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="juventus-mundi" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Juventus Mundi</h3>
				<p>
					<span><abbr>Dr.</abbr> Allen Griffiths is an audible Theosopher⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A student of Blavatsky, inconsolable for loss of her.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He says (he’s seen the figures, too) the human race was flourishing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Three hundred million years upon this planet, ever nourishing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flame of immortality (which always, though, was flickering</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until it burned, a still, eternal red, in <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Pickering)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before that microbe-chief of all the spiritual faculties,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Faculty of Thinking, heard of Man and lightly tackled his</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poor brain, then sleeping sweetly in his undefended cranium.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unable to distinguish a surmise from a geranium.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O happy, happy period of mental independency!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O golden, golden age of Theosophical ascendency!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="two-guides" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Two Guides</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>Ingersoll has neither philosophy nor logic. He has only sentiment, wit and rhetoric.</p>
						<cite>
							<i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Bulletin</i>
						</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>You, Fitch, are known to be a Deacon⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A shining light, a holy beacon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the walls of Zion, blazing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With an effulgency amazing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And yet, I think, between the two</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Bob Ingersoll, I mean, and you)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man in want of light to read</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Between the lines of nature’s Creed</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Would rather scrutinize Creation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By Robert’s clear illumination,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than blind his eyes with smoke and vapor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From your infernal sputtering taper.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Though Ingersoll, perchance, had not</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of wisdom or of truth one jot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’d rather miss with him the clew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To life than follow it with you.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-warning" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">In Warning</h3>
				<p>
					<span>They tell us, dear Kipling, you’re coming to shoot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the hills of the wide, wild West.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There’s a lot of cost and a risk to boot⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I don’t at all think it is best,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And hope it is only a jest.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For, Rudyard, although you’re a terrible swell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You’re not in high favor out here;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For you said San Francisco was meaner than⁠—well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You said it was very small beer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Chicago uncommonly queer.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You put your legs under our tables, you did,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You dined at the Jollidog Club;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when of your hunger you well were rid</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(And your manners too) like a cub</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You snarled at the speeches and grub.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You said⁠—I don’t know the one half that you said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But I know you pretended to meet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some folk that existed not out of your head</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or an English comical sheet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And you vilified Kearny street!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Our statesman apparently didn’t get far</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the favor of one so too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Too utterly fine. Nor the plump cigar</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor the shiny hat could woo</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sweet and beautiful You.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But hardest of all our hearts you wrung</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With assorted pangs and woes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When you said you could speak the English tongue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But not the American nose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And you damned our orators o’s!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For all of this and for all of that</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You’d better abate your flame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And remain where pheasants are tame and fat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the sportsman takes his aim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As a general thing, at the game.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Out here when we go to shoot, perhaps</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor beast nor bird we see;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So we just let go at the Britisher chaps</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who have made remarks too free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the same surcease to be.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="apparition" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Apparition</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“The ghosts are all gone,” the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Bulletin</i> cries.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O neighbor, good neighbor, where are your eyes?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gruesome and ghastly, beneath your nose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A ghost is stalking that never goes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a stony eye and a brow of gloom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It enters the editorial room,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It haunts the passages, haunts the stairs⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Editors, printers alike it scares;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the reader most it appals, for still</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It writes and writes with a real quill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On real paper, in real ink,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The phantoms of thoughts that dead men think.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sheeted ideas from wormy brains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Troop o’er the paper, and spooks of strains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of sepulchral laughter seem to float</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the air as the ghost reads what it wrote;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a faint, white, phosphorescent ray⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The visible eloquence of decay⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gleams on its lips as it reads each word</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a tone that no mortal before has heard.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Copy to printer and ghost to tomb⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Silent the editorial room.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Bulletin</i> ghost is indeed a most</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remarkable kind of a <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Bulletin</i> ghost.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who sees it cries, as his heart were bled:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“O God! will Bill Bartlett never stay dead?”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-creditable-collision" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Creditable Collision</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">There was once a brave collision</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">In Imaginary Bay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">When a steamer with precision</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Clove its comfortable way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through another, which had hospitably stood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To receive it, as a civil steamer should.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">Then the people on the latter</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Said they didn’t understand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">But they thought they’d better scatter</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">To the most adjacent land;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the people on the former said: “That’s so⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You will find it sixty fathoms down below.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">Then the skipper of the vessel</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Which was sinking in the brine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Said to t’other one: “I guess I’ll</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Trouble you to drop a line.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Well, just give me your address,” was the reply,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I am busy but I’ll write you by-and-by.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">Then the carpenter whose function</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Was to mend the leaky boat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Said: “So wide is our disjunction</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">That we cannot longer float.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See the rats already leave us!” And so he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up and hove his kit among them in the sea.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">Though these incidents are cheerful</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">For a landsman to relate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Yet the passengers were fearful</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Of a melancholy fate;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For their knowledge was imperfect of the way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the fishes have of breathing in the bay.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">Some of them, who were accounted</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Quite unmannerly and rude,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">On the floating steamer mounted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Saying: “Hope we don’t intrude.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the others, with politeness rare and fine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said their tickets were not good upon that line.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">But the skipper of the wetter</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Ship, the pilot and the mate⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Nothing ever yet was better</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Than the way they met their fate;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the perils that beset them in their climb</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They encountered with alacrity sublime.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">When the troubles all were ended</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And the living safe in port</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Invitation was extended</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">For them all to come to court.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the officers (they afterward explained)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were with deferential kindness entertained.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">Twenty Consuls, ten Inspectors,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Thirty Coroners were there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Eighty-seven skilled objectors</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And a Notary to swear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And before that court the sailor-people sighed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And expounded how the passengers had lied.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">The unanimous decision</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Of that high and mighty court</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Was “spontaneous collision”⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">(I am quoting the report)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the skippers were commended who had fed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the lobsters each a bellyful of dead.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-emigrant" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">An Emigrant</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>(after Tennyson)</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>You ask me why, though ill at ease,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Within this region I subsist,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where all defaulters fill the fist</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere sailing o’er the western seas.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It is a land where one may kill</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With sober-sided freedom⁠—bruise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And shoot and stab whome’er he choose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thugs may wreak their own sweet will.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A land of such misgovernment</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That Justice here has not a frown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And greed still broadens slowly down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Scavenger to President;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where Faction gathers to a head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And in his greasy, foulest thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sets law and order all at naught⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Goes in for anarchy instead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If banded unions prosecute</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1"><em>Our</em> unions like the deuce, and I’m</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">About to be had up for crime.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or made to keep my clapper mute;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And Power should take from purse and till,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The gains that I appropriate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From every coffer of the State,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I to fight have not the will.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then waft me from the harbor south,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wild winds! I seek a safer sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where I can plunder still, and I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can still shoot off my loaded mouth.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="contempt-of-court" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Contempt of Court</h3>
				<p>
					<span>So, Juror Simpson, you got drunk</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And was a holy show!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who could have thought that you had sunk</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So very low</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As not to hold it clearly sinful</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To get your miserable skin full?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Defendant has a right, I think,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To trial by her peers;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are <em>you</em> one when you are in drink</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Up to your ears?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’re not her equal by a pailful</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When you’ve enough to make a whale full.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Judge Ross, who never, never looks</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On wine when it is red,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But sits cold sober cramming books</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Into his head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poor fellow! must have felt quite rueful,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Observing, not himself, but you full.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, well, I know you did not mean⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">’Twas all an accident:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You drank between drinks, and between</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Them you repent.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But just prepare for something awful</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In words: That jurist has his jaw full.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-partial-eclipse" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Partial Eclipse</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A Person of Consequence rose from the dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to him a curious citizen said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Beg pardon, but why is your glorious name</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not blazoned in gold on the Temple of Fame?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I truly don’t know,” said the spook in reply,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“And was just on the point of asking you why</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those other names <em>are</em>” And the risen one made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A wink that threw half of the land into shade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sent half of the hens to their perches aloof,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And half of the cats to the peak of a roof,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Half-crazed the foreseer of eclipses, and fooled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The funny left lobe of the brain of Miss Gould.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
