<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Musings, Philosophical and Theological</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="musings-philosophical-and-theological">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Musings, Philosophical and Theological</h2>
			<p>Seated in his den, in the chill gloom of a winter twilight, comforting his stomach with hoarded bits of cheese and broad biscuits, Mr. Grile thinketh unto himself after this fashion of thought:</p>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To eat biscuits and cheese before dining is to confess that you do not expect to dine.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“Once bit, twice shy,” is a homely saying, but singularly true. A man who has been swindled will be very cautious the second time, and the third. The fourth time he may be swindled again more easily and completely than before.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-3" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A four-footed beast walks by lifting one foot at a time, but a four-horse team does not walk by lifting one horse at a time. And yet you cannot readily explain why this is so.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-4" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<!--This epigram appeared in a revised form in Bierce's 'Collected Works Vol. 8' with the following text -->
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Asked to describe the Deity, a donkey would represent him with long ears and a tail. Man’s conception is higher and truer: he thinks of him as somewhat resembling a man.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-5" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The bald head of a man is a very common spectacle. You have never seen the bald head of a woman.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-6" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Baldheaded women are a very common spectacle.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-7" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Piety, like small-pox, comes by infection. Robinson Crusoe, however, caught it alone on his island. It is probable that he had it in his blood.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-8" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The doctrine of foreknowledge does not imply the truth of foreordination. Foreordination is a cause antedating an event. Foreknowledge is an effect, not of something that is going to occur, which would be absurd, but the effect of its being going to occur.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-9" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Those who cherish the opposite opinion may be very good citizens.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-10" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Old shoes are easiest, because they have accommodated themselves to the feet. Old friends are least intolerable because they have adapted themselves to the inferior parts of our character.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-11" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Between old friends and old shoes there are other points of resemblance.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-12" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Everybody professes to know that it would be difficult to find a needle in a haystack, but very few reflect that this is because haystacks seldom contain needles.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-13" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A man with but one leg is a better man than a man with two legs, for the reason that there is less of him.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-14" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A man without any legs is better than a man with one leg; not because there is less of him, but because he cannot get about to enact so much wickedness.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-15" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When an ostrich is pursued he conceals his head in a bush; when a man is pursued he conceals his property. By instinct each knows his enemy’s design.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-16" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>There are two things that should be avoided; the deadly upas tree and soda water. The latter will make you puffy and poddy.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-17" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>This list of things to be avoided is necessarily incomplete.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-18" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In calling a man a hog, it is the man who gets angry, but it is the hog who is insulted. Men are always taking up the quarrels of others.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-19" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Give an American a newspaper and a pie and he will make himself comfortable anywhere.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-20" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The world of mind will be divided upon the question of baptism so long as there are two simple and effective methods of baptising, and they are equally disagreeable.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-21" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>They are not equally disagreeable, but each is disagreeable enough to attract disciples.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-22" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The face of a pig is a more handsome face than the face of a man⁠—in the pig’s opinion.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-23" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A pig’s opinion upon this question is as likely to be correct as is a man’s opinion.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-24" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It is better not to take a wife than to take one belonging to some other man: for if she has been a good wife to him she has adapted her nature to his, and will therefore be unsuited to yours. If she has not been a good wife to him she will not be to you.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-25" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The most gifted people are not always the most favoured: a man with twelve legs can derive no benefit from ten of them without crawling like a centipede.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-26" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A woman and a cow are the two most beautiful creatures in the world. For proof of the beauty of a cow, the reader is referred to an ox; for proof of the beauty of a woman, an ox is referred to the reader.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-27" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>There is reason to believe that a baby is less comely than a calf, for the reason that all kine esteem the calf the more comely beast, and there is one man who does not esteem the baby the more comely beast.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-28" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To judge of the wisdom of an act by its result is a very shallow plan. An action is wise or unwise the moment it is decided upon.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-29" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If the wisdom of an action may not be determined by the result, it is very difficult to determine it.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-30" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It is impossible.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-31" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The moon always presents the same side to the earth because she is heaviest on that side. The opposite side, however, is more private and secluded.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-32" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<!--This epigram appeared in a revised form in Bierce's 'Collected Works Vol. 8' with the following text -->
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Christians and camels receive their burdens kneeling.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-33" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It was never intended that men should be saints in heaven until they are dead and good for nothing else. On earth they are mostly</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="musings-philosophical-and-theological-34" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Fools.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<hr/>
			<p>I, Grile, have arranged these primal truths in the order of their importance, in the hope that some patient investigator may amplify and codify them into a coherent body of doctrine, and so establish a new religion. I would do it myself were it not that a very corpulent and most unexpected pudding is claiming my present attention.</p>
			<p>O, steaming enigma! O, savoury mountain of hidden mysteries! too long neglected for too long a sermon. Engaging problem, let me reveal the secrets latent in thy breast, and unfold thine occult philosophy! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Cutting into the pudding.</i> Ah! here, and here alone is⁠—<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Eating it</i>.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
