<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>On Stone: Some Ante-Mortem Epitaphs</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="on-stone" epub:type="division">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h2 epub:type="title">On Stone</h2>
					<h3 epub:type="subtitle">Some Ante-Mortem Epitaphs</h3>
				</hgroup>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span>As in a dream, strange epitaphs I see,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Inscribed on yet unquarried stone,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Where wither flowers yet unstrown⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Campo Santo of the time to be.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<article id="george-francis-train" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
						<h4 epub:type="title">George Francis Train</h4>
					</hgroup>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>(Inscribed on a Pork-barrel.)</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Beneath this casket rots unknown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A Thing that merits not a stone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Save that by passing urchin cast;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose fame and virtues we express</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By transient urn of emptiness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With apt inscription (to its past</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Relating⁠—and to his): “Prime Mess.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No honour had this infidel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That doth not appertain, as well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To haltered caitiff on the drop;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No wit that would not likewise pass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For wisdom in the famished ass</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who breaks his neck a weed to crop,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When tethered in the luscious grass.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And now, thank God, his hateful name</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall never rescued be from shame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though seas of venal ink be shed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No sophistry shall reconcile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With sympathy for Erin’s Isle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or sorrow for her patriot dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The weeping of this crocodile.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Life’s incongruity is past,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dirt to dirt is seen at last,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The worm of worm afoul doth fall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sexton tolls his solemn bell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For scoundrel dead and gone to⁠—well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It matters not, it can’t recall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This convict from his final cell.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-king-of-craft" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">A King of Craft</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Here lies Sam Chamberlain; his fatal smile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Survives its wielder for a little while</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In nightmares of the prudent few who fled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Judas kisses that it heralded⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those all are dreamless who stood still to view</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The smile that stayed them for the stab that slew.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against his God his warfare now is o’er:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His bloodless heart (no colder than before)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No longer with a mute ambition swells</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To run a half-a-hundred little Hells.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With ever a polite, perfidious art⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dove in manner and a snake in heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This titmouse Machiavelli ne’er again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will feel the urge, the passion and the strain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To prove it true that one may smile and smile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And be a Chamberlain the blessed while.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Sharp at both ends, his secret soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was like a double-headed mole</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Equipped with equal nose to prod</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This way or that beneath the sod.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Conjecture fitted to confound</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If seen a moment out of ground⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Its former, as its future, route</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The matter of a vain dispute,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Save where a dunghill’s lure supplied</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Its aid the riddle to decide.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When that occurred (his nearer nose</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pointing the way with happier throes)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He sought it as a bee the rose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And as that robber daubs its thighs</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With pollen till it cannot rise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So he, with glutted mind, remained</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Inert, and Christ arose and reigned.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We raise the stone, we carve the solemn word,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sign of promise and the symbol grim;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His voice and vice are in the land unheard⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Yet all is doubtful that relates to him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No more he twirls his smile to work us woe;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We saw him put a fathom under sod:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Flung down at last⁠—but so was Aaron’s rod.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We <em>hope</em> he’s dead, but only this we know:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He does not smile. O glory be to God!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="stephen-dorsey" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">Stephen Dorsey</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Flee, heedless stranger, from this spot accurst,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where rests in Satan an offender first</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In point of greatness, as in point of time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of new-school rascals who proclaim their crime.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Skilled with a frank loquacity to blab</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dark arcana of each mighty grab,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And famed for lying from his early youth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He sinned secure behind a veil of truth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some lock their lips upon their deeds; some write</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A damning record and conceal from sight;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some, with a lust of speaking, die to quell it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His way to keep a secret was to tell it.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mr-justice-field" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title"><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Justice Field</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Here sleeps one of the greatest students</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i9">Of jurisprudence.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nature endowed him with the gift</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i9">Of the juristhrift.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All points of law alike he threw</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i9">The dice to settle.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those honest cubes were loaded true</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i9">With railway metal.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="general-b-f-butler" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">General <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">B. F.</abbr> Butler</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Thy flesh to earth, thy soul to God,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We gave, O gallant brother;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And o’er thy grave the awkward squad</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fired into one another!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="reparation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">Reparation</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Beneath this monument which rears its head.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A giant note of admiration⁠—dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His life extinguished like a taper’s flame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>John Ericsson is lying in his fame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behold how massive is the lofty shaft;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How fine the product of the sculptor’s craft;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gold how lavishly applied; the great</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Man’s statue how impressive and sedate!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Think what the cost-was! It would ill become</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our modesty to specify the sum;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Suffice it that a fair per cent, we’re giving</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of what we robbed him of when he was living.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="disincorporated" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">Disincorporated</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Of Corporal Tanner the head and the trunk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are here in unconsecrate ground duly sunk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His legs in the South claim the patriot’s tear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, stranger, you needn’t be blubbering here.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-kit" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">A Kit</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Here Ingalls, sorrowing, has laid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tools of his infernal trade⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His pen and tongue. So sharp they grew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An such destruction from them flew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His hand was wounded when he wrote,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when he spoke he cut his throat.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="disjunctus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">Disjunctus</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Within this humble mausoleum</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Poor Guiteau’s flesh you’ll find.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His bones are kept in a museum,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Tillman has his mind.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-trencher-knight" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">A Trencher-Knight</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Stranger, uncover; here you have in view</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The monument of Chauncey <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">M.</abbr> Depew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eater and orator, the whole world round</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For feats of tongue and tooth alike renowned.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dining his way to eminence, he rowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With knife and fork up water-ways that flowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From lakes of favor⁠—pulled with all his force</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And found each river sweeter than the source.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Like rats, obscure beneath a kitchen floor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gnawing and rising till obscure no more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He ate his way to eminence, and Fame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inscribes in gravy his immortal name.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A trencher-knight, he, mounted on his belly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So spurred his charger that its sides were jelly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grown desperate at last, it reared and threw him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Indigestion, overtaking, slew him.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-vice-president" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">A Vice-President</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Here the remains of Schuyler Colfax lie;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Born, all the world knows when, and God knows why.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In ’71 he filled the public eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In ’72 he bade the world good-bye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In God’s good time, with a protesting sigh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He came to life just long enough to die.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-wasted-life" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">A Wasted Life</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Of Morgan here lies the unspirited clay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who secrets of Masonry swore to betray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He joined the great Order and studied with zeal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The awful arcana he meant to reveal.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At last in chagrin by his own hand he fell⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There was nothing to learn, there was nothing to tell.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Masons are said to have killed him. Not so⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even a secret so foul, they’re compelled to forego.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="loring-pickering" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</h3>
						<h4 epub:type="title">Loring Pickering</h4>
					</hgroup>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>(After Pope)</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Here rests a writer, great but not immense,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Born destitute of feeling and of sense.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No power he but o’er his brain desired⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How not to suffer it to be inspired.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ideas unto him were all unknown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Proud of the words which, only, were his own.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So unreflecting, so confused his mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Torpid in error, indolently blind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A fever Heaven, to quicken him, applied,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, rather than revive, the sluggard died.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-water-pirate" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIV</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">A Water-Pirate</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Pause, stranger⁠—whence you lightly tread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bill Carr’s immoral part has fled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For him no heart of woman burned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But all the rivers’ heads he turned.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alas! he now lifts up his eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In torment and for water cries,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Entreating that he may procure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One drop to cool his parched McClure!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="c-p-berry" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XV</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title se:name.person"><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">C. P.</abbr> Berry</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Here’s crowbait!⁠—ravens, too, and daws</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flock hither to advance their caws,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, with a sudden courage armed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Devour the foe who once alarmed⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In life and death a fair deceit:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor strong to harm nor good to eat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>King bogey of the scarecrow host,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When known the least affrighting most,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though light his hand (his mind was dark)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He left on earth a straw Berry mark.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-rev-joseph-hemphill" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVI</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">The <abbr>Rev.</abbr> Joseph Hemphill</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>He preached that sickness he could floor</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By prayer and by commanding;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When sick himself he sent for four</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Physicians in good standing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was struck dead despite their care,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For, fearing their dissension,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He secretly put up a prayer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thus drawing God’s attention.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-17" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Jay Gould lies here. When he was newly dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He looked so natural that round his bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The people stood, in silence all, to weep.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They thought, poor souls! that he did only sleep.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-18" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Cynic perforce from studying mankind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the false volume of his single mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He damned his fellows for his own unworth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, bad himself, thought nothing good on earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet, still so judging and so erring still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Observing well, but understanding ill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His learning all was got by dint of sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And what he learned by day he lost by night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When hired to flatter he would never cease</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till those who’d paid for praises paid for peace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not wholly miser and but half a knave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He yearned to squander but he lived to save,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And did not, for he could not, cheat the grave.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i xml:lang="la">Hic jacet</i> Pixley, scribe and muleteer:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Step lightly, stranger, anywhere but here.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-19" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>McAllister, of talents rich and rare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lies at this spot at finish of his race.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alike to him if it is here or there:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The one spot that he cared for was the ace.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-20" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Here lies Joseph Redding, who gave us the catfish.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He dined upon every fish except that fish.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas touching to hear him expounding his fad</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a heart full of zeal and a mouth full of shad.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The catfish miaowed with unspeakable woe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Death, the lone fisherman, landed their Jo.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-21" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Judge Sawyer, whom in vain the people tried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To push from power, here is laid aside.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death only from the bench could ever start</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sluggish load of his immortal part.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-22" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>John Irish went, one luckless day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To loaf and fish at San Jose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He got no loaf, he got no fish:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They brained him with an empty dish!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They laid him in this place asleep⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O come, ye crocodiles, and weep.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-23" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In Sacramento City here</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This wooden monument we rear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In memory of <abbr>Dr.</abbr> May,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose smile even Death could not allay.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’s buried, Heaven alone knows where,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And only the hyenas care;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This May-pole merely marks the spot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where, ere the wretch began to rot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fame’s trumpet, with its brazen bray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bawled; “Who (and why) was <abbr>Dr.</abbr> May?”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-24" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Dennis Spencer’s mortal coil</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here is laid away to spoil⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Great riparian, who said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not a stream should leave its bed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now his soul would like a river</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Turned upon its parching liver.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-25" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>For those this mausoleum is erected</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who Stanford to the Upper House elected.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their luck is less or their promotion slower,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For, dead, they were elected to the Lower.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-26" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Beneath this stone lies Reuben Lloyd,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of breath deprived, of sense devoid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Templars’ Captain-General, he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So formidable seemed to be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That had he not been on his back</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death ne’er had ventured to attack.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-27" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Here lies Greer Harrison, a well cracked louse⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So small a tenant of so big a house!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He joyed in fighting with his eyes (his fist</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prudently pendent from a peaceful wrist)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And loved to loll on the Parnassian mount,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His pen to suck and all his thumbs to count⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What poetry he’d written but for lack</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of skill, when he had counted, to count back!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alas, no more he’ll climb the sacred steep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To wake the lyre and put the world to sleep!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To his rapt lip his soul no longer springs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And like a jaybird from a knot-hole sings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No more the clubmen, pickled with his wine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spread wide their ears and hiccough “That’s divine!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The genius of his purse no longer draws</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pleasing thunders of a paid applause.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All silent now, nor sound nor sense remains,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though riddances of worms improve his brains.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All his no talents to the earth revert,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Fame concludes the record: “Dirt to dirt!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-28" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Here lies Barnes in all his glory⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Master he of oratOry.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When he died the people weeping,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(For they thought him only sleeping)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cried: “Although he now is quiet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his tongue is not a riot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soon, the spell that binds him breaking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He a motion will be making.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, alas, he’ll rise and speak</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In support of it a week.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-29" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Rash mortal! stay thy feet and look around⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This vacant tomb as yet is holy ground;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But soon, alas! Jim Fair will occupy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These premises⁠—then, holiness, good-bye!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-30" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Here Salomon’s body reposes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bring roses, ye rebels, bring roses.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Set all of your drumsticks a-rolling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Discretion and Valor extrolling:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Discretion⁠—he always retreated⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Valor⁠—the dead he defeated.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brings roses, ye loyal, bring roses:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As patriot here he re-poses.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-31" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When Waterman ended his bright career</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He left his wet name to history here.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To carry it with him he did not care:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twould tantalize spirits of statesmen There.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-32" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Here lie the remains of Fred Emerson Brooks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A poet, as every one knew by his looks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who hadn’t unluckily met with his books.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>On civic occasions he sprang to the fore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With poems consisting of stanzas three score.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The men whom they deafened enjoyed them the more.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Of reason his fantasy knew not the check:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All forms of inharmony came at his beck.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The weight of his ignorance fractured his neck.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In this peaceful spot, so the grave-diggers say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With pen, ink and paper they laid him away⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Poet-elect of the Judgment Day.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-33" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">George Perry here lies stiff and stark,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With stone at foot and stone at head.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His heart was dark, his mind was dark⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Ignorant ass!” the people said.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Not ignorant but skilled, alas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In all the secrets of his trade:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He knew more ways to be an ass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than any ass that ever brayed.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-34" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Here lies the last of Deacon Fitch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose business was to melt the pitch.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Convenient to this sacred spot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lies Sammy, who applied it, hot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis hard⁠—so much alike they smell⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One’s grave from t’other’s grave to tell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But when his tomb the Deacon’s burst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Of two he’ll always be the first)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’ll see by studying the stones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he’s obtained his proper bones,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, seeking Sammy’s vault, unlock it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And put that person in his pocket.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-35" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Beneath this stone O’Donnell’s tongue’s at rest⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our noses by his spirit still addressed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Living or dead, he’s equally Satanic⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His noise a terror and his smell a panic.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-36" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Hangman’s hands laid in this tomb an</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Imp of Satan’s getting, whom an</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ancient legend says that woman</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Never bore⁠—he owed his birth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To Sin herself. From Hell to Earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She brought the brat in secret state</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And laid him at the Golden Gate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they named him Henry Vrooman.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">While with mortals here he stayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His father frequently he played.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Raised his birth-place and in other</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Playful ways begot his mother.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-37" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When Gabriel blows a dreadful blast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And swears that Time’s forever past,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Days, weeks, months, years all one at last,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then Asa Fiske, laid here, distressed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will beat (and skin his hand) his breast:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There’ll be no rate of interest!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-38" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Step lightly, stranger: here Jerome <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">B.</abbr> Cox</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is for the second time in a bad box.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He killed a man⁠—the labor party rose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And showed him by its love how killing goes.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-39" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">When Vrooman here lay down to sleep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The other dead awoke to weep.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Since he no longer lives,” they said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Small honor comes of being dead.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-40" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XL</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Here Porter Ashe is in the ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Green grows the grass upon his mound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This patron of the turf, I vow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ne’er served it half so well as now.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-41" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Like a cold fish escaping from its tank,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hence fled the soul of Joe Russel, crank.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He cried: “Cold water!” roaring like a beast.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas thrown upon him and the music ceased.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-42" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Here Estee rests. He shook a basket,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When, like a jewel from its casket,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fell Felton out. Said Estee, shouting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With mirth; “I’ve given you an outing.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then told him to go back. He wouldn’t.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then tried to <em>put</em> him back. He couldn’t.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So Estee died (his blood congealing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Felton’s growing shadow) squealing.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-43" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Mourn here for one Bruner, called Elwood.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He doesn’t⁠—he never did⁠—smell good</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To noses of critics and scholars.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If now he’d an office to sell could</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He sell it? O, no⁠—where (in Hell) could</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He find a cool four hundred dollars?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-44" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Here Stanford lies, who thought it odd</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he should go to meet his God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He looked, until his eyes grew dim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For God to hasten to meet him.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
