<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Poesy</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="poesy" epub:type="division">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Poesy</h2>
			<article id="ye-idyll-of-ye-hippopopotamus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Ye Idyll of Ye Hippopopotamus</h3>
				<p>
					<span>With a Methodist hymn in his musical throat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Sun was emitting his ultimate note;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His quivering larynx enwrinkled the sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like an Ichthyosaurian blowing his tea;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When sweetly and pensively rattled and rang</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This plaint which an Hippopopotamus sang:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O, Camomile, Calabash, Cartilage-pie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spread for my spirit a peppermint fry;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crown me with doughnuts, and drape me with cheese,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Settle my soul with a codliver sneeze.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo, how I stand on my head and repine⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lollipop Lumpkin can never be mine!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Down sank the Sun with a kick and a plunge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up from the wave rose the head of a Sponge;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ropes in his ringlets, eggs in his eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tip-tilted nose in a way to surprise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These the conundrums he flung to the breeze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The answers that Echo returned to him these:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">“Cobblestone, Cobblestone, why do you sigh⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Why do you turn on the tears?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“My mother is crazy on strawberry jam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And my father has petrified ears.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">“Liverwort, Liverwort, why do you droop⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Why do you snuffle and scowl?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“My brother has cockle-burs into his eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And my sister has married an owl.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">“Simia, Simia, why do you laugh⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Why do you cackle and quake?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“My son has a pollywog stuck in his throat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And my daughter has bitten a snake.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Slow sank the head of the Sponge out of sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soaken with sea-water⁠—then it was night.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Moon had now risen for dinner to dress,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When sweetly the Pachyderm sang from his nest;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He sang through a pestle of silvery shape,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Encrusted with custard⁠—empurpled with crape;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And this was the burden he bore on his lips,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And blew to the listening Sturgeon that sips</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the fountain of opium under the lobes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the mountain whose summit in buffalo robes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The winter envelops, as Venus adorns</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An elephant’s trunk with a chaplet of thorns:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">“Chasing mastodons through marshes upon stilts of light ratan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hunting spiders with a shotgun and mosquitoes with an axe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Plucking peanuts ready roasted from the branches of the oak,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Waking echoes in the forest with our hymns of blessed bosh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We roamed⁠—my love and I.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">By the margin of the fountain spouting thick with clabbered milk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Under spreading boughs of bass-wood all alive with cooing toads,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Loafing listlessly on bowlders of octagonal design,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Standing gracefully inverted with our toes together knit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We loved⁠—my love and I.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hippopopotamus comforts his heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Biting half-moons out of strawberry tart.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="jerusalem-old-and-new" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Jerusalem, Old and New</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Didymus Dunkleton Doty Don John</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is a parson of high degree;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He holds forth of Sundays to marvelling crowds</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who wonder how vice can still be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When smitten so stoutly by Didymus Don⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Disciple of Calvin is he.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But sinners still laugh at his talk of the New</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Jerusalem⁠—ha-ha, te-he!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And biting their thumbs at the doughty Don John⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This parson of high degree⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They think of the streets of a village they know,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where horses still sink to the knee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Contrasting its muck with the pavement of gold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That’s laid in the other citee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They think of the sign that still swings, uneffaced</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By winds from the salt, salt sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which tells where he trafficked in tipple, of yore⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Don Dunkleton Johnny, <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:given-name">D. D.</abbr></span>
					<br/>
					<span>Didymus Dunkleton Doty Don John</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Still plays on his fiddle-<abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:given-name">D. D.</abbr>,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His lambkins still bleat in full psalmody sweet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the devil still pitches the key.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="communing-with-nature" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Communing with Nature</h3>
				<p>
					<span>One evening I sat on a heavenward hill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The winds were asleep and all nature was still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wee children came round me to play at my knee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As my mind floated rudderless over the sea.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I put out one hand to caress them, but held</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the other my nose, for these cherubim smelled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I cast a few glances upon the old sun;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was red in the face from the race he had run,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But he seemed to be doing, for aught I could see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quite well without any assistance from me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so I directed my wandering eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Around to the opposite side of the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the rapture that ever with ecstasy thrills</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the heart as the moon rises bright from the hills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would in this case have been most exceedingly rare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Except for the fact that the moon was not there.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the stars looked right lovingly down in the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, by Jupiter, Venus was winking at me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gas in the city was flaring up bright,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Montgomery Street was resplendent with light;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I did not exactly appear to advance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A sentiment proper to that circumstance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So it only remains to explain to the town</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That a rainstorm came up before I could come down.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the boots I had on were uncommonly thin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My fancy leaked out as the water leaked in.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though dampened my ardour, though slackened my strain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll “strike the wild lyre” who sings the sweet rain!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="conservatism-and-progress" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Conservatism and Progress</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Old Zephyr, dawdling in the West,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Looked down upon the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which slept unfretted at his feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And balanced on its breast a fleet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That seemed almost to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Suspended in the middle air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if a magnet held it there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eternally at rest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, one by one, the ships released</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their folded sails, and strove</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against the empty calm to press</span>
					<br/>
					<span>North, South, or West, or East,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In vain; the subtle nothingness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was impotent to move.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ten Zephyr laughed aloud to see:⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“No vessel moves except by me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, heigh⁠—ho! I shall sleep.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But lo! from out the troubled North</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A tempest strode impatient forth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And trampled white the deep;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sloping ships flew glad away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Laving their heated sides in spray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The West then turned him red with wrath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to the North he shouted:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Hold there! How dare you cross my path,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As now you are about it?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The North replied with laboured breath⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His speed no moment slowing:⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“My friend, you’ll never have a path,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unless you take to blowing.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="inter-arma-silent-leges" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Inter Arma Silent Leges</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>(An Election Incident.)</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>About the polls the freedmen drew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To vote the freemen down;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And merrily their caps up-flew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As Grant rode through the town.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From votes to staves they next did turn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And beat the freemen down;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Full bravely did their valour burn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As Grant rode through the town.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then staves for muskets they forsook,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And shot the freemen down;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Right royally their banners shook</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As Grant rode through the town.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hail, final triumph of our cause!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hail, chief of mute renown!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grim Magistrate of Silent Laws,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A-riding freedom down!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="quintessence" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Quintessence</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>“To produce these spicy paragraphs, which have been unsuccessfully imitated by every newspaper in the State, requires the combined efforts of five able-bodied persons associated on the editorial staff of this journal.”</p>
						<cite>
							<i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">New York Herald</i>
						</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Sir Muscle speaks, and nations bend the ear:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Hark ye these Notes⁠—our wit quintuple hear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Five able-bodied editors combine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their strength prodigious in each laboured line!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O wondrous vintner! hopeless seemed the task</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To bung these drainings in a single cask;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The riddle’s read⁠—five leathern skins contain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The working juice, and scarcely feel the strain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Saviours of Rome! will wonders never cease?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A ballad cackled by five tuneful geese!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon one Rosinante five stout knights</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ride fiercely into visionary fights!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A cap and bells five sturdy fools adorn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Five porkers battle for a grain of corn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Five donkeys squeeze into a narrow stall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Five tumble-bugs propel a single ball!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="resurgam" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Resurgam</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Dawns dread and red the fateful morn⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo, Resurrection’s Day is born!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The striding sea no longer strides,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No longer knows the trick of tides;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The land is breathless, winds relent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All nature waits the dread event.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From wassail rising rather late,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Awarding Jove arrives in state;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O’er yawning graves looks many a league,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then yawns himself from sheer fatigue.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lifting its finger to the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A marble shaft arrests his eye⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This epitaph, in pompous pride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Engraven on its polished side:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Perfection of Creation’s plan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here resteth Universal Man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who virtues, segregated wide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Collated, classed, and codified,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reduced to practice, taught, explained,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And strict morality maintained.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Anticipating death, his pelf</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He lavished on this monolith;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Because he leaves nor kin nor kith</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He rears this tribute to himself,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Virtue’s fame may never cease.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i xml:lang="la">Hic jacet</i>⁠—let him rest in peace!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With sober eye Jove scanned the shaft,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then turned away and lightly laughed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Poor Man! since I have careless been</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In keeping books to note thy sin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thou hast left upon the earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This faithful record of thy worth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy final prayer shall now be heard:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of life I’ll not renew thy lease,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But take thee at thy carven word,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And let thee rest in solemn peace!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
