<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Poetry</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="the-fiends-delight-poesy" epub:type="division">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Fiend's Delight</h2>
				<h3 epub:type="subtitle">Poesy</h3>
			</hgroup>
			<article id="ye-idyll-of-ye-hippopopotamus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Ye Idyll of Ye Hippopopotamus</h3>
				<p>
					<span>With a Methodist hymn in his musical throat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Sun was emitting his ultimate note;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His quivering larynx enwrinkled the sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like an Ichthyosaurian blowing his tea;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When sweetly and pensively rattled and rang</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This plaint which an Hippopopotamus sang:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O, Camomile, Calabash, Cartilage-pie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spread for my spirit a peppermint fry;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crown me with doughnuts, and drape me with cheese,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Settle my soul with a codliver sneeze.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo, how I stand on my head and repine—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lollipop Lumpkin can never be mine!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Down sank the Sun with a kick and a plunge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up from the wave rose the head of a Sponge;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ropes in his ringlets, eggs in his eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tip-tilted nose in a way to surprise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These the conundrums he flung to the breeze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The answers that Echo returned to him these:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">“Cobblestone, Cobblestone, why do you sigh—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Why do you turn on the tears?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“My mother is crazy on strawberry jam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And my father has petrified ears.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">“Liverwort, Liverwort, why do you droop—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Why do you snuffle and scowl?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“My brother has cockle-burs into his eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And my sister has married an owl.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">“Simia, Simia, why do you laugh—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Why do you cackle and quake?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“My son has a pollywog stuck in his throat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And my daughter has bitten a snake.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Slow sank the head of the Sponge out of sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soaken with sea-water—then it was night.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Moon had now risen for dinner to dress,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When sweetly the Pachyderm sang from his nest;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He sang through a pestle of silvery shape,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Encrusted with custard—empurpled with crape;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And this was the burden he bore on his lips,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And blew to the listening Sturgeon that sips</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the fountain of opium under the lobes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the mountain whose summit in buffalo robes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The winter envelops, as Venus adorns</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An elephant’s trunk with a chaplet of thorns:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">“Chasing mastodons through marshes upon stilts of light ratan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hunting spiders with a shotgun and mosquitoes with an axe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Plucking peanuts ready roasted from the branches of the oak,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Waking echoes in the forest with our hymns of blessed bosh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We roamed—my love and I.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">By the margin of the fountain spouting thick with clabbered milk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Under spreading boughs of bass-wood all alive with cooing toads,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Loafing listlessly on bowlders of octagonal design,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Standing gracefully inverted with our toes together knit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We loved—my love and I.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hippopopotamus comforts his heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Biting half-moons out of strawberry tart.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="jerusalem-old-and-new" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Jerusalem, Old and New</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Didymus Dunkleton Doty Don John</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is a parson of high degree;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He holds forth of Sundays to marvelling crowds</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who wonder how vice can still be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When smitten so stoutly by Didymus Don—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Disciple of Calvin is he.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But sinners still laugh at his talk of the New</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Jerusalem—ha-ha, te-he!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And biting their thumbs at the doughty Don John—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This parson of high degree—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They think of the streets of a village they know,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where horses still sink to the knee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Contrasting its muck with the pavement of gold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That’s laid in the other citee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They think of the sign that still swings, uneffaced</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By winds from the salt, salt sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which tells where he trafficked in tipple, of yore—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Don Dunkleton Johnny, D. D.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Didymus Dunkleton Doty Don John</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Still plays on his fiddle-D. D.,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His lambkins still bleat in full psalmody sweet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the devil still pitches the key.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="communing-with-nature" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Communing with Nature</h3>
				<p>
					<span>One evening I sat on a heavenward hill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The winds were asleep and all nature was still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wee children came round me to play at my knee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As my mind floated rudderless over the sea.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I put out one hand to caress them, but held</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the other my nose, for these cherubim smelled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I cast a few glances upon the old sun;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was red in the face from the race he had run,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But he seemed to be doing, for aught I could see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quite well without any assistance from me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so I directed my wandering eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Around to the opposite side of the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the rapture that ever with ecstasy thrills</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the heart as the moon rises bright from the hills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would in this case have been most exceedingly rare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Except for the fact that the moon was not there.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the stars looked right lovingly down in the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, by Jupiter, Venus was winking at me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gas in the city was flaring up bright,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Montgomery Street was resplendent with light;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I did not exactly appear to advance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A sentiment proper to that circumstance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So it only remains to explain to the town</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That a rainstorm came up before I could come down.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the boots I had on were uncommonly thin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My fancy leaked out as the water leaked in.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though dampened my ardour, though slackened my strain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll “strike the wild lyre” who sings the sweet rain!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="conservatism-and-progress" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Conservatism and Progress</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Old Zephyr, dawdling in the West,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Looked down upon the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which slept unfretted at his feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And balanced on its breast a fleet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That seemed almost to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Suspended in the middle air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if a magnet held it there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eternally at rest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, one by one, the ships released</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their folded sails, and strove</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against the empty calm to press</span>
					<br/>
					<span>North, South, or West, or East,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In vain; the subtle nothingness</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was impotent to move.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ten Zephyr laughed aloud to see:—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“No vessel moves except by me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, heigh—ho! I shall sleep.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But lo! from out the troubled North</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A tempest strode impatient forth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And trampled white the deep;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sloping ships flew glad away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Laving their heated sides in spray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The West then turned him red with wrath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to the North he shouted:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Hold there! How dare you cross my path,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As now you are about it?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The North replied with laboured breath—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His speed no moment slowing:—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“My friend, you’ll never have a path,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unless you take to blowing.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="inter-arma-silent-leges" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Inter Arma Silent Leges</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>(An Election Incident.)</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>About the polls the freedmen drew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To vote the freemen down;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And merrily their caps up-flew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As Grant rode through the town.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From votes to staves they next did turn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And beat the freemen down;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Full bravely did their valour burn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As Grant rode through the town.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then staves for muskets they forsook,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And shot the freemen down;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Right royally their banners shook</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As Grant rode through the town.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hail, final triumph of our cause!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hail, chief of mute renown!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grim Magistrate of Silent Laws,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A-riding freedom down!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="quintessence" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Quintessence</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>“To produce these spicy paragraphs, which have been unsuccessfully imitated by every newspaper in the State, requires the combined efforts of five able-bodied persons associated on the editorial staff of this journal.”</p>
						<cite epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">New York Herald</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Sir Muscle speaks, and nations bend the ear:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Hark ye these Notes—our wit quintuple hear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Five able-bodied editors combine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their strength prodigious in each laboured line!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O wondrous vintner! hopeless seemed the task</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To bung these drainings in a single cask;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The riddle’s read—five leathern skins contain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The working juice, and scarcely feel the strain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Saviours of Rome! will wonders never cease?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A ballad cackled by five tuneful geese!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon one Rosinante five stout knights</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ride fiercely into visionary fights!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A cap and bells five sturdy fools adorn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Five porkers battle for a grain of corn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Five donkeys squeeze into a narrow stall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Five tumble-bugs propel a single ball!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="resurgam" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Resurgam</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Dawns dread and red the fateful morn—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo, Resurrection’s Day is born!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The striding sea no longer strides,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No longer knows the trick of tides;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The land is breathless, winds relent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All nature waits the dread event.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From wassail rising rather late,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Awarding Jove arrives in state;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O’er yawning graves looks many a league,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then yawns himself from sheer fatigue.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lifting its finger to the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A marble shaft arrests his eye—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This epitaph, in pompous pride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Engraven on its polished side:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Perfection of Creation’s plan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here resteth Universal Man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who virtues, segregated wide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Collated, classed, and codified,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reduced to practice, taught, explained,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And strict morality maintained.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Anticipating death, his pelf</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He lavished on this monolith;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Because he leaves nor kin nor kith</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He rears this tribute to himself,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Virtue’s fame may never cease.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i>Hic jacet</i>—let him rest in peace!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With sober eye Jove scanned the shaft,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then turned away and lightly laughed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Poor Man! since I have careless been</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In keeping books to note thy sin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thou hast left upon the earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This faithful record of thy worth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy final prayer shall now be heard:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of life I’ll not renew thy lease,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But take thee at thy carven word,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And let thee rest in solemn peace!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
		<section id="shapes-of-clay" epub:type="division">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Shapes of Clay</h2>
			<article id="the-passing-show" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Passing Show</h3>
				<section id="the-passing-show-1" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h4>
					<p>
						<span>I know not if it was a dream. I viewed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A city where the restless multitude,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Between the eastern and the western deep</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had roared gigantic fabrics, strong and rude.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Colossal palaces crowned every height;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Towers from valleys climbed into the light;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">O'er dwellings at their feet, great golden domes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hung in the blue, barbarically bright.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>But now, new-glimmering to-east, the day</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Touched the black masses with a grace of gray,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Dim spires of temples to the nation's God</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Studding high spaces of the wide survey.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Well did the roofs their solemn secret keep</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of life and death stayed by the truce of sleep,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yet whispered of an hour when sleepers wake,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The fool to hope afresh, the wise to weep.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The gardens greened upon the builded hills</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Above the tethered thunders of the mills</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">With sleeping wheels unstirred to service yet</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the tamed torrents and the quickened rills.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A hewn acclivity, reprieved a space,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Looked on the builder's blocks about his base</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And bared his wounded breast in sign to say:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>"Strike! 't is my destiny to lodge your race.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>"'T was but a breath ago the mammoth browsed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Upon my slopes, and in my caves I housed</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Your shaggy fathers in their nakedness,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>While on their foeman's offal they caroused."</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Ships from afar afforested the bay.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Within their huge and chambered bodies lay</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The wealth of continents; and merrily sailed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The hardy argosies to far Cathay.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Beside the city of the living spread—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Strange fellowship!—the city of the dead;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And much I wondered what its humble folk,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To see how bravely they were housed, had said.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Noting how firm their habitations stood,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Broad-based and free of perishable wood—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">How deep in granite and how high in brass</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The names were wrought of eminent and good,</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I said: "When gold or power is their aim,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The smile of beauty or the wage of shame,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Men dwell in cities; to this place they fare</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When they would conquer an abiding fame."</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>From the red East the sun—a solemn rite—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Crowned with a flame the cross upon a height</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Above the dead; and then with all his strength</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Struck the great city all aroar with light!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-passing-show-2" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h4>
					<p>
						<span>I know not if it was a dream. I came</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unto a land where something seemed the same</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That I had known as 't were but yesterday,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But what it was I could not rightly name.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>It was a strange and melancholy land.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Silent and desolate. On either hand</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Lay waters of a sea that seemed as dead,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And dead above it seemed the hills to stand,</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Grayed all with age, those lonely hills—ah me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How worn and weary they appeared to be!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Between their feet long dusty fissures clove</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The plain in aimless windings to the sea.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>One hill there was which, parted from the rest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Stood where the eastern water curved a-west.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Silent and passionless it stood. I thought</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I saw a scar upon its giant breast.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The sun with sullen and portentous gleam</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hung like a menace on the sea's extreme;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Nor the dead waters, nor the far, bleak bars</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of cloud were conscious of his failing beam.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>It was a dismal and a dreadful sight,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That desert in its cold, uncanny light;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">No soul but I alone to mark the fear</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And imminence of everlasting night!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>All presages and prophecies of doom</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Glimmered and babbled in the ghastly gloom,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And in the midst of that accursèd scene</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A wolf sat howling on a broken tomb.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="elixir-vitae" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Elixir Vitӕ</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Of life's elixir I had writ, when sleep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Pray Heaven it spared him who the writing read!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sealed upon my senses with so deep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A stupefaction that men thought me dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The centuries stole by with noiseless tread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like spectres in the twilight of my dream;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw mankind in dim procession sweep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through life, oblivion at each extreme.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Meanwhile my beard, like Barbarossa's growing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Loaded my lap and o'er my knees was flowing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The generations came with dance and song,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And each observed me curiously there.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some asked: "Who was he?" Others in the throng</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Replied: "A wicked monk who slept at prayer."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some said I was a saint, and some a bear—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These all were women. So the young and gay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Visibly wrinkling as they fared along,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Doddered at last on failing limbs away;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though some, their footing in my beard entangled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fell into its abysses and were strangled.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>At last a generation came that walked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More slowly forward to the common tomb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then altogether stopped. The women talked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Excitedly; the men, with eyes agloom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Looked darkly on them with a look of doom;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And one cried out: "We are immortal now—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How need we these?" And a dread figure stalked,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Silent, with gleaming axe and shrouded brow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all men cried: "Decapitate the women,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or soon there'll be no room to stand or swim in!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So (in my dream) each lovely head was chopped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From its fair shoulders, and but men alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were left in all the world. Birth being stopped,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enough of room remained in every zone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Peace ascended Woman's vacant throne.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus, life's elixir being found (the quacks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their bread-and-butter in it gladly sopped)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twas made worth having by the headsman's axe.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seeing which, I gave myself a hearty shaking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And crumbled all to powder in the waking.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="convalescent-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Convalescent</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What! "Out of danger?" Can the slighted Dame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or canting Pharisee no more defame?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will Treachery caress my hand no more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor Hatred He alurk about my door?—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ingratitude, with benefits dismissed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not close the loaded palm to make a fist?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will Envy henceforth not retaliate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For virtues it were vain to emulate?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will Ignorance my knowledge fail to scout,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not understanding what 'tis all about,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet feeling in its light so mean and small</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That all his little soul is turned to gall?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What! "Out of danger?" Jealousy disarmed?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Greed from exaction magically charmed?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ambition stayed from trampling whom it meets,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like horses fugitive in crowded streets?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Bigot, with his candle, book and bell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tongue-tied, unlunged and paralyzed as well?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Critic righteously to justice haled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His own ear to the post securely nailed—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What most he dreads unable to inflict,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And powerless to hawk the faults he's picked?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The liar choked upon his choicest lie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And impotent alike to villify</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or flatter for the gold of thrifty men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who hate his person but employ his pen—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who love and loathe, respectively, the dirt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Belonging to his character and shirt?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What! "Out of danger?"—Nature's minions all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like hounds returning to the huntsman's call,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Obedient to the unwelcome note</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That stays them from the quarry's bursting throat?—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Famine and Pestilence and Earthquake dire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Torrent and Tempest, Lightning, Frost and Fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soulless Tiger and the mindless Snake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The noxious Insect from the stagnant lake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Automaton malevolences wrought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of the substance of Creative Thought)—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These from their immemorial prey restrained,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their fury baffled and their power chained?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I'm safe? Is that what the physician said?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What! "Out of danger?" Then, by Heaven, I'm dead!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="at-the-close-of-the-canvass" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">At the Close of the Canvass</h3>
				<p>
					<span>'Twas a Venerable Person, whom I met one Sunday morning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All appareled as a prophet of a melancholy sect;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in a jeremaid of objurgatory warning</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He lifted up his <i>jodel</i> to the following effect:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O ye sanguinary statesmen, intermit your verbal tussles</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O ye editors and orators, consent to hear my lay!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a little while the digital and maxillary muscles</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And attend to what a Venerable Person has to say.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Cease your writing, cease your shouting, cease your wild unearthly lying;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Cease to bandy such expressions as are never, never found</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the letter of a lover; cease "exposing" and "replying"—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Let there be abated fury and a decrement of sound.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For to-morrow will be Monday and the fifth day of November—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Only day of opportunity before the final rush.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i>Carpe diem!</i> go conciliate each person who's a member</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the other party—do it while you can without a blush.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Lo! the time is close upon you when the madness of the season</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Having howled itself to silence, like a Minnesota 'clone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will at last be superseded by the still, small voice of reason,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When the whelpage of your folly you would willingly disown.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Ah, 'tis mournful to consider what remorses will be thronging,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With a consciousness of having been so ghastly indiscreet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When by accident untoward two ex-gentlemen belonging</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the opposite political denominations meet!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Yes, 'tis melancholy, truly, to forecast the fierce, unruly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Supersurging of their blushes, like the flushes upon high</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Aurora Borealis lights her circumpolar palace</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And in customary manner sets her banner in the sky.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Each will think: 'This falsifier knows that I too am a liar.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Curse him for a son of Satan, all unholily compound!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Curse my leader for another! Curse that pelican, my mother!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Would to God that I when little in my victual had been drowned!'"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then that Venerable Person went away without returning</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And, the madness of the season having also taken flight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the people soon were blushing like the skies to crimson burning</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When Aurora Borealis fires her premises by night.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="novum-organum" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Novum Organum</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In Bacon see the culminating prime</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Anglo-Saxon intellect and crime.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He dies and Nature, settling his affairs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Parts his endowments among us, his heirs:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To every one a pinch of brain for seed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, to develop it, a pinch of greed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each thrifty heir, to make the gift suffice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Buries the talent to manure the vice.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="geotheos" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Geotheos</h3>
				<p>
					<span>As sweet as the look of a lover</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Saluting the eyes of a maid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That blossom to blue as the maid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is ablush to the glances above her,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sunshine is gilding the glade</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And lifting the lark out of shade.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sing therefore high praises, and therefore</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sing songs that are ancient as gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Earth in her garments of gold;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor ask of their meaning, nor wherefore</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They charm as of yore, for behold!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Earth is as fair as of old.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sing songs of the pride of the mountains,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And songs of the strength of the seas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the fountains that fall to the seas</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the hands of the hills, and the fountains</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That shine in the temples of trees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In valleys of roses and bees.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sing songs that are dreamy and tender,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of slender Arabian palms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And shadows that circle the palms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where caravans, veiled from the splendor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are kneeling in blossoms and balms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In islands of infinite calms.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Barbaric, O Man, was thy runing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When mountains were stained as with wine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By the dawning of Time, and as wine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were the seas, yet its echoes are crooning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Achant in the gusty pine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the pulse of the poet's line.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="politics" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Politics</h3>
				<p>
					<span>That land full surely hastens to its end</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where public sycophants in homage bend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The populace to flatter, and repeat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The doubled echoes of its loud conceit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lowly their attitude but high their aim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They creep to eminence through paths of shame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till fixed securely in the seats of pow'r,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dupes they flattered they at last devour.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-valley-of-dry-bones" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Valley of Dry Bones</h3>
				<p>
					<span>With crow bones all the land is white,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the gates of morn to the gates of night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Picked clean, they lie on the cumbered ground,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the politician's paunch is round;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he strokes it down and across as he sings:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I've eaten my fill of the legs and wings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The neck, the back, the pontifical nose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Breast, belly and gizzard, for everything goes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The meat that's dark (and there's none that's white)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exceeded the need of my appetite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I've bravely stuck to the needful work</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That a hungry domestic hog would shirk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I've eaten the fowl that the Fates commend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To reluctant lips of the People's Friend.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rank unspeakably, bitter as gall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is the bird, but I've eaten it, feathers and all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'm a dutiful statesman, I am, although</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I really <em>don't</em> like a diet of crow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I've dined all alone in a furtive way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But my platter I've cleaned every blessed day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They say that I bolt; so I do—my bird;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They say that I sulk, but they've widely erred!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Lord! if my enemies only knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How I'm full to the throat with the corvic stew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They'd open their ears to hear me profess</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The faith compelled by the corvic stress,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(For, alas! necessity knows no law)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the heavenly caucus—'Caw! Caw! Caw!'"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And that ornithanthropical person tried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By flapping his arms on the air to ride;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I knew by the way that he clacked his bill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was just the poor, featherless biped, Dave Hill.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1896">1896</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="polyphemus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Polyphemus</h3>
				<p>
					<span>'Twas a sick young man with a face ungay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And an eye that was all alone;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he shook his head in a hopeless way</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As he sat on a roadside stone.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"O, ailing youth, what untoward fate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Has made the sun to set</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On your mirth and eye ?" "I'm constrained to state</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I'm an ex-West Point cadet.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"'Twas at cannon-practice I got my hurt</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And my present frame of mind;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the gun went off with a double spurt—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Before it, and also behind!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"How sad, how sad, that a fine young chap,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When studying how to kill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should meet with so terrible a mishap</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Precluding eventual skill.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Ah, woful to think that a weapon made</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For mowing down the foe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should commit so dreadful an escapade</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As to turn about to mow!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No more he heeded while I condoled:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He was wandering in his mind;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His lonely eye unconsidered rolled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And his views he thus defined:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"'Twas O for a breach of the peace — 'twas O</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For an international brawl!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But a piece of the breech—ah no, ah no,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I didn't want that at all."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-defense" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">In Defense</h3>
				<p>
					<span>You may say, if you please, Johnny Bull, that our girls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are crazy to marry your dukes and your earls;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I've heard that the maids of your own little isle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Greet bachelor lords with a favoring smile.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, titles, 'tis said in defense of our fair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are popular here because popular there;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And for them our ladies persistently go</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because 'tis exceedingly English, you know.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Whatever the motive, you'll have to confess</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The effort's attended with easy success;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And—pardon the freedom—'tis thought, over here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis mortification you mask with a sneer.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It's all very well, sir, your scorn to parade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the high nasal twang of the Yankee maid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, ah, to my lord when he dares to propose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No sound is so sweet as that "Yes" from the nose.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Our ladies, we grant, walk alone in the street</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Observe, by-the-by, on what delicate feet!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis a habit they got here at home, where they say</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The men from politeness go seldom astray.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, well, if the dukes and the earls and that lot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can stand it (God succor them if they cannot!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your commoners ought to assent, I am sure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And what they're not called on to suffer, endure.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"'Tis nothing but money?—Your nobles are bought?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As to that, I submit, it is commonly thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That England's a country not specially free</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Crœsi and (if you'll allow it) Crœsӕ.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You've many a widow and many a girl</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With money to purchase a duke or an earl.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis a very remarkable thing, you'll agree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When goods import buyers from over the sea.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Alas for the woman of Albion's isle!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She may simper; as well as she can she may smile;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She may wear pantalettes and an air of repose—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But my lord of the future will talk through his nose.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="invocation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Invocation</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>Read at the Celebration of Independence Day in San Francisco, in 1888.</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Goddess of Liberty! O thou</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whose tearless eyes behold the chain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And look unmoved upon the slain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eternal peace upon thy brow,—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Before thy shrine the races press,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thy perfect favor to implore—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The proudest tyrant asks no more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ironed anarchist no less.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thine altar-coals that touch the lips</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of prophets kindle, too, the brand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By Discord flung with wanton hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Among the houses and the ships.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Upon thy tranquil front the star</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Burns bleak and passionless and white,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Its cold inclemency of light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More dreadful than the shadows are.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thy name we do not here invoke</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our civic rites to sanctify:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Enthroned in thy remoter sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou heedest not our broken yoke.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thou carest not for such as we:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our millions die to serve the still</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And secret purpose of thy will.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They perish—what is that to thee?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The light that fills the patriot's tomb</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is not of thee. The shining crown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Compassionately offered down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To those who falter in the gloom,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And fall, and call upon thy name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And die desiring—'tis the sign</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of a diviner love than thine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rewarding with a richer fame.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To him alone let freemen cry</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who hears alike the victor's shout,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The song of faith, the moan of doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bends him from his nearer sky.</span>
				</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>
					<span>God of my country and my race!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So greater than the gods of old—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So fairer than the prophets told</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who dimly saw and feared thy face,—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Who didst but half reveal thy will</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And gracious ends to their desire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Behind the dawn's advancing fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy tender day-beam veiling still,—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To whom the unceasing suns belong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And cause is one with consequence,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To whose divine, inclusive sense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The moan is blended with the song,—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Whose laws, imperfect and unjust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thy just and perfect purpose serve:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The needle, howsoe'er it swerve,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still warranting the sailor's trust,—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>God, lift thy hand and make us free</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To crown the work thou hast designed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O, strike away the chains that bind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our souls to one idolatry!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The liberty thy love hath given</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We thank thee for. We thank thee for</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our great dead fathers' holy war</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherein our manacles were riven.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We thank thee for the stronger stroke</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ourselves delivered and incurred</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When—thine incitement half unheard—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The chains we riveted we broke.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We thank thee that beyond the sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The people, growing ever wise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Turn to the west their serious eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dumbly strive to be as we.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As when the sun's returning flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Upon the Nileside statue shone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And struck from the enchanted stone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The music of a mighty fame,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let Man salute the rising day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Liberty, but not adore.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">'Tis Opportunity—no more—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A useful, not a sacred, ray.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It bringeth good, it bringeth ill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As he possessing shall elect.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He maketh it of none effect</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who walketh not within thy will.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Give thou or more or less, as we</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shall serve the right or serve the wrong.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Confirm our freedom but so long</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As we are worthy to be free.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But when (O, distant be the time!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Majorities in passion draw</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Insurgent swords to murder Law,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the land is red with crime;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Or—nearer menace!—when the band</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of feeble spirits cringe and plead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the gigantic strength of Greed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fawn upon his iron hand;—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, when the steps to state are worn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In hollows by the feet of thieves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Mammon sits among the sheaves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And chuckles while the reapers mourn;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then stay thy miracle!—replace</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The broken throne, repair the chain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Restore the interrupted reign</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And veil again thy patient face.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lo! here upon the world's extreme</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We stand with lifted arms and dare</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By thine eternal name to swear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our country, which so fair we deem—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Upon whose hills, a bannered throng,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The spirits of the sun display</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Their flashing lances day by day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hear the sea's pacific song—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Shall be so ruled in right and grace</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That men shall say: "O, drive afield</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The lawless eagle from the shield,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And call an angel to the place!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="religion" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Religion</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Hassan Bedreddin, clad in rags, ill-shod,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sought the great temple of the living God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The worshippers arose and drove him forth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And one in power beat him with a rod.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Allah," he cried, "thou seest what I got;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy servants bar me from the sacred spot."</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"Be comforted," the Holy One replied;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"It is the only place where I am not."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="two-socialists" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Two Socialists</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Brand Whitlock sped from Hell through space,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To be remanded never—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For having such a saintly face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Set free forever,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">With due apology. He came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To a world so base and bestial</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No tongue infernal spake its name—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No tongue celestial.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">So foul it was that even He</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had cast it off Who made it:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Adrift in space, as on a sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No mooring stayed it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">That orb unclean, denied the aid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of gravitation's tether,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For centuries had blindly strayed—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lost altogether!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">The sun disdainfully declined</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To light the villain planet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the whole universe combined</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To curse and ban it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">The Thief Impenitent, his grim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Recusance unabated,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was its sole occupant: for him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was created.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For when the wretch was newly dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">'Twas thought Hell had not ample</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Restraints to check the local spread</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of his example,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nor apparatus that insured</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A proper pang; though lately</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The woes that he at first endured</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had softened greatly.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But still one fierce, vain longing he</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Suffered, nor could o'ercome it—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wish to sit in reverie</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On Calvary's summit.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Beneath that orb's unjoyous sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Brand Whitlock found the sinner.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Affinity!—the outer eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lit by the inner.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Said Whitlock: "Here my stay is brief;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Take, brother, ere we sever,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy pardon. Be a better thief</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Henceforth forever.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"God gives me power to condone</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All scalawags' offending,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the sweet faith that I have shown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In their amending."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When so he'd said with solemn grace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As was that good soul's habit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Thief directly into space</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sprang like a rabbit!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>(He might have left at any time</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had freedom been his passion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For God had long forgot his crime.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Crime was the fashion.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Saint, resuming soon his flight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Met him through chaos floating.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Three stolen post-holes that poor wight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was gaily toting.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-morning-fancy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Morning Fancy</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I drifted (or I seemed to) in a boat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the surface of a shoreless sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whereon no ship nor anything did float,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save only the frail bark supporting me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that—it was so shadowy—seemed to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Almost from out the very vapors wrought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the great ocean underneath its keel;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all that blue profound appeared as naught</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But thicker sky, translucent to reveal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Miles down, whatever through its spaces glided,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or at the bottom traveled or abided.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Great cities there I saw—of rich and poor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The palace and the hovel; mountains, vales,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forest and field, the desert and the moor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tombs of the good and wise who'd lived in jails,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And seas of denser fluid, white with sails</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pushed at by currents moving here and there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sensible to sight above the flat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of that opaquer deep. Ah, strange and fair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The nether world that I was gazing at</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With beating heart from that exalted level,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And—lest I founder—trembling like the devil!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The cities all were populous: men swarmed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In public places—chattered, laughed and wept;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And savages their shining bodies warmed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At fires in primal woods. The wild beast leapt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon its prey and slew it as it slept.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Armies went forth to battle on the plain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So far, far down in that unfathomed deep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The living seemed as silent as the slain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor even the widows could be heard to weep.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One might have thought their shaking was but laughter;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, truly, most were married shortly after.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Above the wreckage of that silent fray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strange fishes swam in circles, round and round—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Black, double-finned; and once a little way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A bubble rose and burst without a sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a man tumbled out upon the ground.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lord! 'twas an eerie thing to drift apace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On that pellucid sea, beneath black skies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And o'er the heads of an undrowning race;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when I woke I said—to her surprise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who came with chocolate, for me to drink it:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"The atmosphere is deeper than you think it."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="visions-of-sin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Visions of Sin</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>
							<em>Kraslajorsk, Siberia</em>
						</p>
						<p>My eyes are better, and I shall travel slowly toward home.</p>
						<cite>Danenhower</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>From the regions of the Night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Coming with recovered sight—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the spell of darkness free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What will Danenhower see?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He will see when he arrives,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Doctors taking human lives.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He will see a learned judge</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose decision will not budge</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till both litigants are fleeced</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his palm is duly greased.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lawyers he will see who fight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Day by day and night by night;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never both upon a side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though their fees they still divide.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Preachers he will see who teach</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That it is divine to preach—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That they fan a sacred fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And are worthy of their hire.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He will see a trusted wife</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>(Pride of some good husband's life)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enter at a certain door</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And—but he will see no more.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He will see Good Templars reel—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See a prosecutor steal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a father beat his child.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He'll perhaps see Oscar Wilde.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From the regions of the Night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Coming with recovered sight—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the bliss of blindness free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That's what Danenhower'll see.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>1882.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="genius" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Genius</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What is the thing called Genius? One has said</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">'Tis general ability directed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into a special channel. One, instead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Proffers a definition much respected</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By toiling dullards: genius, he explains,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is infinite capacity for taking pains.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Max Nordau, seeing he has not the thing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Has solemnly decided, with Lombroso,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That genius is degeneracy. Ring</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The curtain down — the show is only so-so;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'd rather see a dog-fight than sit out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This inconclusive definition-bout.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What, then, is genius? Faith, I'm only sure</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That I am deep in doubt about the matter;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But this I think: of two in literature</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He is the greater genius who's the fatter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twas in an age less prosperous that those</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were kings of thought who starved by verse and prose.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lo! the lean rhapsodist whose soul surveys,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ecstatic, his unprofitable vision,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Interprets it in cleanly speech; arrays</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His jeweled words with scholarly precision!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faith, he's a dunce or he would never lack</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The means to wedge his belly from his back.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'Twere passing easy to allay his pang</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had he the genius — that's to say, the insight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Commercial. If he would but sing in slang</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He'd earn the wherewithal to make his skin tight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Genius (let's now define the word afresh)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is the capacity to take on flesh.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Spirit of Letters, hail! Thy reign is Now;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thy ministers are gentlemen that waddle—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Children of light and leading who avow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They swap, for tallow, speech that's not a model,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For laminated kidney-suet trade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unsavory words. You must be stout, George Ade.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-town-of-dae" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">The Town of Dӕ</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Swains and maidens, young and old,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You to me this tale have told.</span>
						</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Where the squalid town of Dӕ</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Irks the comfortable sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spreading webs to gather fish,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As for wealth we set a wish,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dwelt a king by right divine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sprung from Adam's royal line,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Town of Dӕ by the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Divers kinds of kings there be.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Name nor fame had Picklepip:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ne'er a soldier nor a ship</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bore his banners in the sun;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Naught knew he of kingly sport,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he held his royal court</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under an inverted tun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Love and roses, ages through,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Bloom where cot and trellis stand;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never yet these blossoms grew—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never yet was room for two—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In a cask upon the strand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So it happened, as it ought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That his simple schemes he wrought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the lagging summer's day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a solitary way.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So it happened, as was best,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he took his nightly rest</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With no dreadful incubus</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This way eyed and that way tressed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Featured thus, and thus, and so,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lying lead-like on a breast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By cares of state enough oppressed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet in dreams his fancies rude</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Claimed a lordly latitude.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Town of Dӕ by the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dreamers mate above their state</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And waken back to their degree.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Once to cask himself away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He prepared at close of day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As he tugged with swelling throat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At a most unkingly coat—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not to get it off, but on,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the serving sun was gone—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Passed a silk-appareled sprite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Toward her castle on the height,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seized and set the garment right.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Turned the startled Picklepip—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Splendid crimson cheek and lip!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Turned again to sneak away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But she bade the villain stay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bade him thank her, which he did</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a speech that slipped and slid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sprawled and stumbled in its gait</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As a dancer tries to skate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Town of Dӕ by the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the face of silk and lace</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Rags too bold should never be.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lady Minnow cocked her head:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Mister Picklepip," she said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Do you ever think to wed?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Town of Dӕ by the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No fair lady ever made a</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wicked speech like that to me!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Wretched little Picklepip</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said he hadn't any ship,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Any flocks at his command,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor to feed them any land;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said he never in his life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Owned a mine to keep a wife.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the guilty stammer so</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That his meaning wouldn't flow;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So he thought his aim to reach</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By some figurative speech:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said his Fate had been unkind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had pursued him from behind</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(How the mischief could it else?)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came upon him unaware,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Caught him by the collar—there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gushed the little lady's glee</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like a gush of golden bells:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Picklepip, why, that is <i>me</i>!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Town of Dӕ by the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grammar's for great scholars—she</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Loved the summer and the lea.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Stupid little Picklepip</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Allowed the subtle hint to slip—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Maundered on about the ship</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he did not chance to own;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Told this grievance o'er and o'er,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Knowing that she knew before;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Told her how he dwelt alone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lady Minnow, for reply,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cut him off with "So do I!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But she reddened at the fib;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Servitors had she, <i>ad lib.</i></span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Town of Dӕ by the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In her youth who speaks no truth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ne'er shall young and honest be.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Witless little Picklepip</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Manned again his mental ship</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And veered her with a sudden shift.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Painted to the lady's thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How he wrestled and he wrought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stoutly with the swimming drift</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By the kindly river brought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the mountain to the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fuel for the town of Dӕ.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tedious tale for lady's ear:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From her castle on the height,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She had watched her water-knight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the seasons of a year,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Challenge more than met his view</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And conquer better than he knew.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now she shook her pretty pate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stamped her foot—'t was growing late:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Mister Picklepip, when I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drifting seaward pass you by;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the waves my forehead kiss</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And my tresses float above—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dead and drowned for lack of love—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You'll be sorry, sir, for this!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the silly creature cried—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Feared, perchance, the rising tide.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Town of Dӕ by the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Madam Adam, when she had 'em,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">May have been as bad as she.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span><i>Fiat lux!</i> Love's lumination</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fell in floods of revelation!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blinded brain by world aglare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sense of pulses in the air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sense of swooning and the beating</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a voice somewhere repeating</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Something indistinctly heard!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the soul of Picklepip</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sprang upon his trembling lip,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But he spake no further word</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the wealth he did not own;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In that moment had outgrown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ship and mine and flock and land—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even his cask upon the strand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dropped a stricken star to earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Type of wealth and worldly worth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clomb the moon into the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Type of love's immensity!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shaking silver seemed the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Throne of God the town of Dӕ!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Town of Dӕ by the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From above there cometh love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Blessing all good souls that be.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-anarchist" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Anarchist</h3>
				<p>
					<span>False to his art and to the high command</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God laid upon him, Demagogo's hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beats all in vain the harp he touched before:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It yields a jingle and it yields no more.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No more the strings beneath his finger-tips</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing harmonies divine. No more his lips,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Touched with a living coal from sacred fires,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lead the sweet chorus of the golden wires.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The voice is raucous and the phrases squeak;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They labor, they complain, they sweat, they reek!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The more the wayward, disobedient song</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Errs from the right to advocate the wrong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More diligently still the singer strums,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To drown the horrid sound, with all his thumbs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gods, what a spectacle! The angels lean</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of high Heaven to view the sorry scene,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Israfel, "whose heart-strings are a lute,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though now compassion makes their music mute,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Among the weeping company appears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pearls in his eyes and cotton in his ears.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-offer-of-marriage" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Offer of Marriage</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Once I "dipt into the future far as human eye could see,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And saw—it was not Sandow, nor John Sullivan, but she—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Emancipated Woman, who was weeping as she ran</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here and there for the discovery of Expurgated Man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the sun of Evolution ever rose and ever set,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that tardiest of mortals hadn't evoluted yet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hence the tears that she cascaded, hence the sighs that tore apart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the tendinous connections of her indurated heart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cried Emancipated Woman, as she wearied of the search:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"In Advancing I have left myself distinctly in the lurch!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seeking still a worthy partner, from the land of brutes and dudes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have penetrated rashly into manless solitudes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now without a mate of any kind where am I?—that's to say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where shall I be to-morrow?—where exert my rightful sway</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the purifying strength of my emancipated mind?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can solitude be lifted up, vacuity refined?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Calling, calling from the shadows in the rear of my Advance—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the Region of Unprogress in the Dark Domain of Chance—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Long I heard the Unevolvable beseeching my return</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To share the degradation he's reluctant to unlearn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I've held my way regardless, evoluting year by year,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till I'm what you now behold me—or would if you were here—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A condensed Emancipation and a Purifier proud</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An Independent Entity appropriately loud!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Independent? Yes, in spirit, but (O, woful, woful state!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Doomed to premature extinction by privation of a mate—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To extinction or reversion, for Unexpurgated Man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still awaits me in the backward if I sicken of the van.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O the horrible dilemma!—to be odiously linked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With an Undeveloped Species, or become a Type Extinct!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As Emancipated Woman wailed her sorrow to the air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stalking out of desolation came a being strange and rare—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Plato's Man!—bipedal, featherless from mandible to rump,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its wings two quilless flippers and its tail a plumeless stump.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>First it scratched and then it clucked, as if in hospitable terms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It invited her to banquet on imaginary worms.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then it strutted up before her with a lifting of the head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in accents of affection and of sympathy it said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"My estate is some'at 'umble, but I'm qualified to draw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Near the hymeneal altar and whack up my heart and claw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Emancipated Anything as walks upon the earth;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And them things is at your service for whatever they are worth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'm sure to be congenial, marm, nor e'er deserve a scowl—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'm Emancipated Rooster, I am Expurgated Fowl!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From the future and its wonders I withdrew my gaze, and then</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wrote this wild, unfestive lay of Evolutionated Hen.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="arma-virumque" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Arma Virumque</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Ours is a Christian Army"; so he said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A regiment of bangomen who led.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"And ours a Christian Navy," added he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who sailed a thunder-junk upon the sea.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Better they know than men unwarlike do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What is an army and a navy, too.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pray God there may be sent them by-and-by</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The knowledge what a Christian is, and why.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For somewhat lamely the conception runs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a brass-buttoned Jesus firing guns.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-a-proposed-crematory" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">On a Proposed Crematory</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When a fair bridge is builded o'er the gulf</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Between two cities, some ambitious fool,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hot for distinction, pleads for earliest leave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To push his clumsy feet upon the span,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That men in after years may single him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saying: "Behold the fool who first went o'er!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So be it when, as now the promise is,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Next summer sees the edifice complete</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which some do name a crematorium,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within the vantage of whose greater maw's</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quicker digestion we shall cheat the worm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And circumvent the handed mole who loves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With tunnel, adit, drift and roomy stope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To mine our mortal parts in all their dips</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And spurs and angles. Let the fool stand forth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To link his name with this fair enterprise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As first decarcassed by the flame. And if</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With rival greedings for the fiery fame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They push in clamoring multitudes, or if</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With unaccustomed modesty they all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hold off, being something loth to qualify,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let me select the fittest for the rite.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By heaven! I'll make so warrantable, wise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And excellent censure of their true deserts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And such a searching canvass of their claims,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That none shall bait the ballot. I'll spread my choice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the main and general of those</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who, moved of holy impulse, pulpit-born,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Protested 'twere a sacrilege to burn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God's gracious images, designed to rot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bellowed for the right of way for each</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Distempered carrion through the water pipes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With such a sturdy, boisterous exclaim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They did discharge themselves from their own throats</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against the splintered gates of audience</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twere wholesomer to take them in at mouth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than ear. These shall burn first: their ignible</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And seasoned substances—trunks, legs and arms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blent indistinguishable in a mass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like winter-woven serpents in a pit—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>None vantaged of his fellow-fools in point</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of precedence, and all alive—shall serve</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As fueling to fervor the retort</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For after cineration of true men.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-demand" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Demand</h3>
				<p>
					<span>You promised to paint me a picture,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Dear Mat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And I was to pay you in rhyme.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Although I am loth to inflict your</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Most easy of consciences, I'm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of opinion that fibbing is awful,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And breaking a contract unlawful,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Indictable, too, as a crime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A slight and all that.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If, Lady Unbountiful, any</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of that</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By mortals called pity has part</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In your obdurate soul—if a penny</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You care for the health of my heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By performing your undertaking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You'll succor that organ from breaking—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And spare it for some new smart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">As puss does a rat.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Do you think it is very becoming,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Dear Mat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To deny me my rights evermore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And—bless you! if I begin summing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your sins they will make a long score!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You never were generous, madam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If you had been Eve and I Adam</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You'd have given me naught but the core,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And little of that.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Had I been content with a Titian,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A cat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By Landseer, a meadow by Claude,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No doubt I'd have had your permission</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To take it—by purchase abroad.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But why should I sail o'er the ocean</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Landseers and Claudes? I've a notion</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All's bad that the critics belaud.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I wanted a Mat.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Presumption's a sin, and I suffer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">For that:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But still you <i>did</i> say that sometime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If I'd pay you enough (here's enougher—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That's more than enough) of rhyme</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You'd paint me a picture. I pay you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hereby in advance; and I pray you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Condone, while you can, your crime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And send me a Mat.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But if you don't do it I warn you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Dear Mat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I'll raise such a clamor and cry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On Parnassus the Muses will scorn you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As mocker of poets and fly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With bitter complaints to Apollo:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Her spirit is proud, her heart hollow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Her beauty"—they'll hardly deny,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">On second thought, <em>that</em>!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-weather-wight" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Weather Wight</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The way was long, the hill was steep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My footing scarcely I could keep.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The night enshrouded me in gloom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I heard the ocean's distant boom—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The trampling of the surges vast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was borne upon the rising blast.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"God help the mariner," I cried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Whose ship to-morrow braves the tide!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then from the impenetrable dark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A solemn voice made this remark:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"For this locality—warm, bright;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Barometer unchanged; breeze light."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Unseen consoler-man," I cried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Whoe'er you are, where'er abide,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Thanks—but my care is somewhat less</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Jack's, than for my own, distress.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Could I but find a friendly roof,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Small odds what weather were aloof.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"For he whose comfort is secure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Another's woes can well endure."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"The latch-string's out," the voice replied,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"And so's the door—jes' step inside."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then through the darkness I discerned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A hovel, into which I turned.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Groping about beneath its thatch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I struck my head and then a match.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A candle by that gleam betrayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soon lent paraffinaceous aid.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A pallid, bald and thin old man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw, who this complaint began:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Through summer suns and winter snows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I sets observin' of my toes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I rambles with increasin' pain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The path of duty, but in vain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Rewards and honors pass me by—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No Congress hears this raven cry!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Filled with astonishment, I spoke:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Thou ancient raven, why this croak?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"With observation of your toes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What Congress has to do, Heaven knows!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"And swallow me if e'er I knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That one could sit and ramble too!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To answer me that ancient swain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Took up his parable again:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Through winter snows and summer suns</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A Weather Bureau here I runs.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I calls the turn, and can declare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jes' when she'll storm and when she'll fair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Three times a day I sings out clear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The probs to all which wants to hear.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Some weather stations run with light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Frivolity is seldom right.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"A scientist from times remote,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Scienceville my birth is wrote.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"And when I h'ist the 'rainy' sign</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jes' take your clo'es in off the line."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Not mine, O marvelous old man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The methods of your art to scan,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Yet here no instruments there be—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor 'ometer nor 'scope I see.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Did you (if questions you permit)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the asylum leave your kit?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That strange old man with motion rude</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grew to surprising altitude.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Tools (and sarcazzems too) I scorns—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I tells the weather by my corns.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"No doors and windows here you see—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wind and m'isture enters free.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"No fires nor lights, no wool nor fur</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here falsifies the tempercher.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"My corns unleathered I expose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To feel the rain's foretellin' throes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"No stockin' from their ears keeps out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The comin' tempest's warnin' shout.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Sich delicacy some has got</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They know next summer's to be hot.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"This here one says (for that he's best):</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Storm center passin' to the west.'</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"This feller's vitals is transfixed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With frost for Janawary sixt'.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"One chap jes' now is occy'pied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In fig'rin on next Fridy's tide.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I've shaved this cuss so thin and true</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He'll spot a fog in South Peru.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Sech are my tools, which ne'er a swell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Observatory can excel.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"By long a-studyin' their throbs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I catches onto all the probs."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Much more, no doubt, he would have said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But suddenly he turned and fled;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For in mine eye's indignant green</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lay storms that he had not foreseen,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Concerning which, as Fear appeals,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Speed, his toes had told his heels.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="t-a-h" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">
					<abbr>T. A. H.</abbr>
				</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Yes, he was that, or that, as you prefer—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did so and so, though, faith, it wasn't all;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lived like a fool, or a philosopher.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And had whatever's needful for a fall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As rough inflections on a planet merge</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the true bend of the gigantic sphere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor mar the perfect circle of its verge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So in the survey of his worth the small</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Asperities of spirit disappear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lost in the grander curves of character.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He lately was hit hard: none knew but I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The strength and terror of that ghastly stroke—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not even herself. He uttered not a cry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But set his teeth and made a revelry;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drank like a devil—staining sometimes red</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The goblet's edge; diced with his conscience; spread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like Sisyphus, a feast for Death, and spoke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His welcome in a tongue so long forgot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That even his ancient guest remembered not</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What race had cursed him in it. Thus my friend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still conjugating with each failing sense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The verb "to die" in every mood and tense,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pursued his awful humor to the end.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When like a stormy dawn the crimson broke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From his white lips he smiled and mutely bled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, having meanly lived, is grandly dead.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="my-monument" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">My Monument</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It is pleasant to think, as I'm watching my ink</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A-drying along my paper,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That a monument fine will surely be mine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When death has extinguished my taper.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From each rhyming scribe of the journalist tribe</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Purged clean of all sentiments narrow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A pebble will mark his respect for the stark</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Stiff body that's under the barrow.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>By fellow-bards thrown, thus stone upon stone</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Will make my celebrity deathless.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, I wish I could think, as I gaze at my ink,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They'd wait till my carcass is breathless.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mad" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Mad</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O ye who push and fight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To hear a wanton sing—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who utter the delight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That has the bogus ring,—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O men mature in years,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In understanding young,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The membranes of whose ears</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She tickles with her tongue,—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O wives and daughters sweet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who call it love of art</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To kiss a woman's feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That crush a woman's heart,—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O prudent dams and sires,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your docile young who bring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see how man admires</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A sinner if she sing,—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O husbands who impart</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To each assenting spouse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lesson that shall start</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The buds upon your brows,—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All whose applauding hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Assist to rear the fame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That throws o'er all the lands</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The shadow of its shame,—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Go drag her car!—the mud</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Through which its axle rolls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is partly human blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And partly human souls.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Mad, mad!—your senses whirl</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like devils dancing free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because a strolling girl</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Can hold the note high C.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For this the avenging rod</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Heaven ye dare defy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tear the law that God</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thundered from Sinai!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="for-coercion-of-colombia" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">For Coercion of Colombia</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"The ships steam south</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the harbor mouth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In warlike, grim array!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They load the seas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And on every breeze</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I hear the brass bands play</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As the squadrons steer away.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"From each foreign shore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They are coming o'er</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The oceans big and small,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With cheering crews</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And churning screws,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And guns and shot and all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Admirals that appal!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"In tropical seas</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They are thick as bees.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Oh, ne'er on the Trojan strand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was gathered a fleet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So hard to beat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As sails to that southern land.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">'Tis terribly, terribly grand!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"O sailorman stout,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What's it all about?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If you happen to know tell me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the foe has no chance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His troops to advance</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the field we all agree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the devil a ship has he.'"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He shifted his quid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sailorman did.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the starboard side of his face.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His trousers he hitched</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As he rolled and pitched,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Maintaining his dubious place</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With a certain maritime grace.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He looked at the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a studious eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And this singular yarn he spun:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"When the wind's sou'west</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every man's possessed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of a devil!—no son-of-a-gun</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Can tell what's fit to be done."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Perhaps it was naught</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But a sailorman's thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But I said to myself: "I'm blest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If I can't mark down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man of renown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who is living in mental unrest</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where the wind is forever sou'west."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-teagoing-admiral" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Teagoing Admiral</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Once the Queen of Nether China</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(So benign a Messalina!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said: "I'll make a Naval Hero</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without fear—O brave as Nero!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He shall dominate the ocean</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By promotion, that's my notion.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All my other sons of thunder</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then shall plunder vainly under</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This Incomparable Person,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Interspersin' lively cursin'</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With their futile strife to shiver</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every river-pirate's liver,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to ascertain the measure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of his treasure at their leisure.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I'll so arrange the looting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the shooting and the hooting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the making frightful faces</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(These grimaces are the bases</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of our tactics) that they never,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Howsoever brave and clever,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall have any kind of inning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the skinning now beginning.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I'll see that in the story</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the gory game of glory</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The historian shall slight 'em</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or indict 'em—maybe bite 'em.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the Hero of my making,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whom I'm aching to be waking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into visible existence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He shall distance these Philistines.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fame's loud trumpet—he shall hear it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blown with spirit in his ear, it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall extol his birth and breeding,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His exceeding knack at leading</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a sanguinary sea fight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or a tea fight, or a flea fight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till he burst with admiration</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of his station in the nation I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then while all the people mock him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'll unfrock him! That will shock him."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus the Queen of Nether China,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Regina Mun-Kee-Shina,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made to Naval Evolution</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A Confucian contribution.</span>
					<br/>
					<footer>
						<p><time datetime="1898">1898</time>.</p>
					</footer>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-wooer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Wooer</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In Ballybazoo the young men woo</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the irresistible hob-nail shoe;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But in Ghargharoo lived a maiden who</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was pleased to remark that it wouldn't do.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From Ghargharoo to Ballybazoo</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This sternly dissenting maiden (who,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Etc.) went to reside—a lass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a cheek of steel and a brow of brass.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then all the young men of Ballybazoo</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Took turns in calling early to woo</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(With the irresistible hob-nail shoe)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The beautiful maiden from Ghargharoo.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As each fond lover with ardor threw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His heel in her upturned face there flew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A rain of sparks that consumed his eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Affecting his mind with a great surprise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When all the young men had renounced their sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The metal-faced maiden she sat upright,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remarking: "There's nothing here to do—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dull, dull village is Ballybazoo."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From Ballybazoo to Ghargharoo</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cheek-whole maiden her armament drew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And her playmate lovers raised a hurroo</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That saddened the sightless in Ballybazoo.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A stranger there was who cherished a heel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of double-case-hardened, cold-rolled chrome steel!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And taking thought he decided to woo.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As 'twas his undoubted right to do.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To display his charms he removed his shoe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And boarding her visage, began to woo.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there in the gloaming, and not in vain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The old, old story was told again.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It was long ago in the sainted past,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But traits long latent crop out at last;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I know a live newspaper fellow who</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has ancestors buried in Ghargharoo.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="silhouettes-of-orientals" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Silhouettes of Orientals</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Sultan is a Muscleman;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He's full of vim and whack,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And if you want a tussle man</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His back.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Because he's a Mahometan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They think him mighty slow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He's quicker than a comet—an</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Auto!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He doesn't often waste a fit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But throws it where 'twill tell.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blood? Yes, he likes the taste of it</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Right well.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That angel, the Bulgarian,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is just a bird of pray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His soul's as white as Parian,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They say.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His halo fits him pleasantly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he has two great wings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He tunes his harp, and presently</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He sings:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"My shoulder inoffensively</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Bears this dear little chip.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pass on, wayfarer, pensively—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Don't flip."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The thoughtful Moslem pins the chip</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fast with a dagger. Oh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That angel-person's sins of lip</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are low!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Armenian is a sassy cur,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Cantankerous to boot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor draws the line at massacre</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And loot.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But when the Kurd in revelry</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Slays, burns, imprisons, fines,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That bad gent to the devil he</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Consigns.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My muse cannot exemplify</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Macedonian—she</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Refuses to attempt to fly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So free.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Old Philip, King of Macedon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is many ages dead;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We have this little gassy don</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Instead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Is he a Unitarian,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A Moslem, Buddhist, Jew—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or just a gowned barbarian</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With trousers on his Mary Ann?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Don't know—do you?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="land-of-the-pilgrims-pride" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Land of the Pilgrim's Pride</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I dreamed, and in my dream came one who said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Because thou art all sullen; and because</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou sayest thou hast not for thy country, love;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because thou dost begrudge the foolish blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That in the far heroic days thou didst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Or sayst thou didst) pour from thy riven vein</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In testimony to thy patriot zeal;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because thou seekest ever to promote</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Distrust of the benign and wholesome rule</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the Majority—God's Ministers;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because thou hearest in the People's voice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Naught but the mandate of an idiot will</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clamoring in the wilderness, but what</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or why it knoweth not; because all this</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And much beside is true, I come"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Forbear, "I cried, "to name thine errand—all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Too well I know it for the sword, the scales,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shrouded eyes (albeit methinks I catch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A twinkle now and then beneath the band)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Speak to my conscience of a traitor's doom!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strike, then, but hear. To westward, roaring up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From far beyond the earth's vast curvature,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come sounds of discord horrible—the jar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thunder of exploding bombs;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The crackle of the flames that eat away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The means of life of those who kindle them;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shouts and curses of the robber mob.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drunk with a sense of numbers—like the wolves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Numerically brave—on ravin bent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And murder! Hear the moans of honest men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With shameful by-name vilified, denied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The right to earn their bread, and with a blind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mad cruelty the devil would weep to see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beaten and tortured, even by the hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the barbarian's female and his whelps!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Meanwhile the coward rulers of the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prate of 'the People's wrongs.' The coward press</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Thrifty withal to purse a double gain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By two-faced flattery) prates like a fool</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the conservative and saving strength</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Anglo-Saxon institutions, or</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With magic words, as 'freedom,' and the like,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would conjure order from inharmony.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The land is foul with crime, and none declares</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our shame and downfall. Even the women rise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And seeing the rack and ruin men have wrought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strip their weak bodies with a silly zeal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Something to save from the chaotic wreck;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in the reek and sweat of their absurd</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And awkward efforts, lose even what remained—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their own morality and men's respect.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Therefore I say to you;—"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="right">"Nay say no more,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cried she who came into my dream, "for thou</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dost wander. What, pray, has all this to do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With what thou'rt charged with?—that thou dost not love—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such as it is—thy country?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="right">Faith, I would,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But 'tis infested by my countrymen!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What she replied I know not, for a bomb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spitting and sputtering on my chamber floor.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Awoke me and I fled into the night.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-single-termer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Single Termer</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When Senator Foraker came to die</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His features lit up with a glow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he said: "I am going to dwell on high</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the Democrats down below.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I have kept the faith, I have fought the fight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the Trusts forever true.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With Elkins to lead, I have followed the light—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Saint Peter, it's up to you."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Said Peter: "We strive to please in vain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Many a soul coming here</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Escapes to earth to be born again</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And resume the old career."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Here he opened the gate. "Although, no doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This fellow's a son of sin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The devil himself can't keep him out.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But I'll lock the fine gentleman in."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-plague-of-asses" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Plague of Asses</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Alas, we'e fallen upon an evil time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our journals are all in a rash of rhyme.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slang, "dialect," the humor of the slum.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Done into stanzas by the rule of thumb.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The peasant word, the coarse, colloquial phrase.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fitting the pauper thought that it conveys,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>March to the meter-master's "hep, hep, hep,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With every second soldier out of step.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What sins of ours deserve this heavy curse?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who taught our clowns 'tis easy to write verse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If neither poetry nor wit be deemed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A needful ornament, nor sense esteemed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A twin of sound? O rustics of the quill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ill-made by Nature, making others ill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Landlubbers on the sea of song a-sail</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Uttering your fancies o'er the leeward rail)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forgive the wicked wish I cannot choose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But entertain—that, luckless, you may lose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each one a thumb of the tormenting ten</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whereon you reckon syllables. Ah, then,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Restored to what it was before you learned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That grinning through horse-collars ever earned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Plaudits of rustics and enough of dollars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To pay the weekly rental of the collars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With something over for the stomach's throes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your ailing verse will turn to ailing prose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then joyous angels will look down and say:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Behold! the ninety-nine that went astray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Return to where, from fields of noxious grass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweet thistles beckon each repenting ass."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-cuba" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">In Cuba</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Our Administration</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had made a new nation—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As new as a nation could be.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A raven was flapping</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above it and snapping</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His beak with a manifest glee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"O raven, what is it you see</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That causes the manifest glee?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"You can't be designing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A programme of dining</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On anything living and free.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You're famous for dinners</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That plain-speaking sinners</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Condemn with the Terrible D!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(The word is abhorrent to me</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That begins with the Terrible D.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Come down from your airy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Position and tarry</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Awhile on this cocoanut tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tell me what joying</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You find in annoying</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A nation so young and so free—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Not dead in the slightest degree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But lively and healthy as we."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The raven, complying,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said, solemnly eying</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My edible parts from the tree:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"It isn't to nations</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I look for my rations</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To any extent or degree.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They don't fill the hollow in me</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To an appreciable degree.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Yet the seasons ensuing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will see something doing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To heighten my manifest glee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis soldiers that mostly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Appeal to my ghostly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Unusual appetite, see?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They're easy digesting to me</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With my singular appetite, see?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then I hammered my forehead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To think of that horrid</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Old bird with his appetite free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A-sitting there, lacking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Compassion and cracking</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His beak, on a cocoanut tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As if merely saying to me:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"Oh, what a fine cocoanut tree."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I said somewhat later:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Our Administrator</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Freedom's estate, O see!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His Administration</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Presents us a 'nation'</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That's spelled with the Terrible D!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And 'nation' is hateful to me</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When led by the Terrible D."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="for-a-certain-critic" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">For a Certain Critic</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Let lowly themes engage my humble pen—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stupidities of critics, not of men.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be it mine once more the maunderings to trace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the expounders' self-directed race—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their wire-drawn fancies, finically fine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of diligent vacuity the sign.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let them in jargon of their trade rehearse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The moral meaning of the random verse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That runs spontaneous from the poet's pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be half-blotted by ambitious men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who hope with his their meaner names to link</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By writing o'er it in another ink</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The thoughts unreal which they think they think,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until the mental eye in vain inspects</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hateful palimpsest to find the text.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The lark ascending heavenward, loud and long</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sings to the dawning day his wanton song.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The moaning dove, attentive to the sound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its hidden meaning hastens to expound:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Explains its principles, design—in brief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pronounces it a parable of grief!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bee, just pausing ere he daubs his thigh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With pollen from a hollyhock near by,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Declares he never heard in terms so just</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The labor problem thoughtfully discussed!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The browsing ass looks up and clears his whistle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To say: "A monologue upon the thistle!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Meanwhile the lark, descending, folds his wing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And innocently asks: "What!—did I sing?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O literary parasites! who thrive</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the fame of better men, derive</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your sustenance by suction, like a leech,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, for you preach of them, think masters preach,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who find it half is profit, half delight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To write about what you could never write,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Consider, pray, how sharp had been the throes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of famine and discomfiture in those</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You write of if they had been critics, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And doomed to write of nothing but of you!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lo! where the gaping crowd throngs yonder tent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see the lion resolutely bent!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The prosing showman who the beast displays</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grows rich and richer daily in its praise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But how if, to attract the curious yeoman,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lion owned the show and showed the showman?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-summer-poet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To a Summer Poet</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Yes, the Summer girl is flirting on the beach,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With a him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the damboy is a-climbing for the peach,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On the limb;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yes, the bullfrog is a-croaking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the dudelet is a-smoking</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Cigarettes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the hackman is a-hacking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the showman is a-cracking</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Up his pets;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yes, the Jersey 'skeeter flits along the shore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the snapdog—we have heard it o'er and o'er;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Yes, my poet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Well we know it—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Know the spooners how they spoon</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the bright</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dollar light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the country tavern moon;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Yes, the caterpillars fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From the trees (we know it all),</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with beetles all the shelves</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Are alive.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Please unbuttonhole us—O,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Have the grace to let us go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For we know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How you Summer poets thrive,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By the recapitulation</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And insistent iteration</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the wondrous doings incident to Life Among Ourselves!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, I pray you stop the fervor and the fuss.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For you, poor human linnet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">There's a half a living in it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But there's not a copper cent in it for us!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="arthur-mcewen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title se:name.person.full-name">Arthur McEwen</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Posterity with all its eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will come and view him where he lies.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, turning from the scene away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a concerted shrug, will say:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"H'm, <i>Scarabaeus Sisyphus</i>—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What interest has that to us?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We can't admire at all, at all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A tumble-bug without its ball."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then a sage will rise and say:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Good friends, you err—turn back, I pray:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This freak that you unwisely shun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is bug and ball rolled into one."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="charles-and-peter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Charles and Peter</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Ere Gabriel's note to silence died</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All graves of men were gaping wide.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then Charles A. Dana, of <i>The Sun</i></span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rose slowly from the deepest one.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"The dead in Christ rise first, 't is writ,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quoth he—"ick, bick, ban, doe,—I'm It!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>(His headstone, footstone, counted slow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were "ick" and "bick," he "ban" and "doe":</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Of beating Nick the subtle art</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was part of his immortal part.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then straight to Heaven he took his flight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arriving at the Gates of Light.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There Warden Peter, in the throes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of sleep, lay roaring in the nose.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Get up, you sluggard!" Dana cried—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I've an engagement there inside."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Saint arose and scratched his head.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I recollect your face," he said.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"(And, pardon me, 't is rather hard),</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But—" Dana handed him a card.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Ah, yes, I now remember—bless</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My soul, how dull I am I—yes, yes,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"We've nothing better here than bliss.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Walk in. But I must tell you this:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"We've rest and comfort, though, and peace."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"H'm—puddles," Dana said, "for geese.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Have you in Heaven no Hell?" "Why, no,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said Peter, "nor, in truth, below.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"'T is not included in our scheme—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'T is but a preacher's idle dream."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The great man slowly moved away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I'll call," he said, "another day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"On earth I played it, o'er and o'er,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Heaven without it were a bore."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"O, stuff!—come in. You'll make," said Pete,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"A hell where'er you set your feet."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="contemplation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Contemplation</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I muse upon the distant town</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In many a dreamy mood.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above my head the sunbeams crown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The graveyard's giant rood.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lupin blooms among the tombs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The quail recalls her brood.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, good it is to sit and trace</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The shadow of the cross;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It moves so still from place to place</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O'er marble, bronze and moss;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With graves to mark upon its arc</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our time's eternal loss.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And sweet it is to watch the bee</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That revels in the roses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sense the fragrance floating free</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On every breeze that dozes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the mound, where, safe and sound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Mine enemy reposes.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-golden-age" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Golden Age</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Long ago the world was finer—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Why it failed I do not know:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the virtues were diviner;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Robber, miser, and maligner</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had not been created. No,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Truth and honor flourished, though.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Long ago.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sages in procession stalking</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Moved majestic to and fro,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And each lowly mortal walking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In their shadow stilled his talking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Heeding the sonorous flow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of their wisdom, loud or low,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Long ago.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Angel Woman, younger, fairer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Far than she that now we know,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gave men meeting with a rarer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grace. No graybeard cried, " Beware her</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Tongue and temper! " She was slow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To wrath. I tell you that was so,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Long ago.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, the miracle of morning.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Setting all the world aglow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a smile of light adorning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God's own face, held no forewarning</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the tempest that would blow—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sign and prophecy of woe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Long ago.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hope from every hilltop beckoned</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the happy throngs below;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they confidently reckoned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On a hero every second.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Best of all that goodly show,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I was but a laddie—O,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">So long ago!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-prophet-of-peace" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Prophet of Peace</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"The world is young, perverse, and bad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The virtues all are wanting;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gods are dead and men are mad</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And wickedness is haunting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The human heart, an honored guest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As robbers of the night infest</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A wayside inn in Camilhad.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>" Hate walks the earth all unafraid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And neighbor murders neighbor ;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Greed draws on Greed the battle-blade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Labor strangles Labor.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The widow and the orphan cry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For bread while benefactors ply</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Unlashed by law, their dreadful trade.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>" King, president, and patriot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Serve their accurst ambition;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soldier and the sans-culottes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The priest and politician,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are blowing with impested breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The coals of war that sparkle death.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Peace, righteousness, and love are not.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"But I shall live to see the day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whose golden dawn is breaking!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The reign of war no more shall lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our dust, nor hearts be aching.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo! all mankind in brotherhood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall study only to be good,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And fling the sword of self away!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So chanted one inspired and fain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His message to deliver</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To men who toiled upon the plain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And bled along the river.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the world was foul with crime!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This prophet lived about the time</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That Lamech's wife bare Tubal-cain.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-unreformable-reformer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Unreformable Reformer</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I know not how they come about—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">These alterations in our spelling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But sometimes am disposed to doubt</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The efficacy of compelling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(As still is done to one in school</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By threatening to whack or twist him)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Observance of an iron rule</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Despite one's better private system.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For when the sinner's freed from fear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He spells, as formerly, by ear.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That's what I have observed, but much</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By that, I fear, is not decided</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against the iron hand (whose touch</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">May none experience, as I did)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For under this White House regime</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Condemning every silent letter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This is the motto, it would seem:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"Who spells by ear spells all the better.'</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If that is what these pranks entail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Executive Compulsion, hail!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>God grant I know not envy nor.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When chatting over cup and saucer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Betray my secret hunger for</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The high renown of Geoffrey Chaucer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet now at last I seem to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My way to equal approbation:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When I'm as hard to read as he</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Phonetes of that far generation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will study me and say : " How grand !—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So difficult to understand ! "</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The President, the President!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How enterprising in revision</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Nature's laws!—how diligent</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In cutting out a court decision!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How sedulous the stars to woo</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And keep the seasons rightly going!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, seldom we remember who</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Establishes the time of sowing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And reaping, makes the harvest good,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a great man of Leonard Wood.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This world is variously bad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And mad as hares in January</span>
					<br/>
					<span>('Tis later that the hares are mad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But similes and seasons vary)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Presidents have much to do</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To keep the March of Mind a-walking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To level up the birth rate, to</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pain William Chandler—all by talking.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Father Adam, how you must</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rejoice that both your ears are dust!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-word-way-in-panama" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Word-Way in Panama</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I dreamed I sailed along a tropic shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Line behind me and the Star before.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A savage coast, it was, of wood and fen.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And monkeys gabbled there, instead of men.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once, as the blessed sun his head upraised,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On what a wondrous spectacle he gazed!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A mile away upon the starboard beam</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fell into ocean a deep sluggish stream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet not a drop of water passed its mouth—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy way, Kentucky, glory of the South !</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Words, words alone it " uttered to the day,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if from Kansas it had gone astray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yea, disemboguing grandly on the beach,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flowed thickly, viscidly, the parts of speech!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some, by their dead, incalculable weight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Held to the bottom' of that turbid strait,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slid seaward fathoms deep, nor saw the light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That shone above their everlasting night!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some, such their levity, remained atop.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Frolicked and flashed—did everything but stop.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Others, too grave to float, too light to sink.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forever rolled and tumbled on the brink—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spread north and south along the cumbered strand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And babbled ever between sea and land.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah! 'twas a famous spectacle indeed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This wordy welter!—verbs that disagreed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With nominatives; prepositions all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Too weak to hold the objective case in thrall;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Adverbs and adjectives disparted quite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From parent-words and in a woful plight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of orphanage; conjunctions, interjections</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With truly anarchistic predilections;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pronouns which—a gutter-blooded swarm!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Denied their antecedents in their form !</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Greatly I marveled whence this language came—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No " well of English " like it could I name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor think how such a stream, however free</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its flow, could wear a channel to the seal</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As Hudson bears his never-failing fleet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of dead dogs, verdant, poddy and unsweet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To pile themselves upon the Jersey shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or in Sargasso*s Sea rest evermore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So poured this torrent through its delta's breaches.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all these parts of speech were parts of speeches!-</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All gushing from that word-way like a flood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of swearing tomcats militant in mud !</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They leapt, they smelled, they clamored, like a line</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of pagans faring to a sacred shrine!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>" No more my heart the dismal din sustained "</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(See Homer—Pope's translation) for it strained</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My senses—this uncouth, in fragrant, hoarse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>" Fine flow of language " from its Northern source.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cold drops of terror from my body broke!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I 'bouted ship, and from my dream awoke.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1902">1902</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="the-jack-of-clubs" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Jack of Clubs</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Jerome, you are a mighty famous man—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">District Attorney, I believe they call you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some shout your praise as loudly as they can,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And some, apparently, just live to maul you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But whether good or ill repute befall you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your critics can't deny that, as a rule,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You take it standing—though the wits among</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Them say you stand, as does the singing mule.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The better to perform your feats of lung.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, truly from the dawning to the gloaming.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When in good voice, you're usually Jeroming.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O, well, we must have music—'tis a need.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like Ibsen, Shaw or the " Edenic diet " ;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though sometimes silence is desired—indeed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">There's much that may be said in praise of quiet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And possibly you might do worse than try it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twere better, anyhow, than fool advice</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the police to club their fellow men.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Too sore already. Sir, it is not nice</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To free your snouty virtues from the pen—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unless, as once in Gadara, they'll scamper</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down a steep place to where 'tis greatly damper.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Jerome, the best of us are those who care</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To hide from view the monsters that inhabit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our hearts, and when too closely questioned swear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We've nothing fiercer than a sheep or rabbit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Seeing an opportunity, you grab it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lifting up the curtain, show the whole</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Menagerie of thoughts and feelings which</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Infest the secret places of your soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like newts and water-puppies in a ditch.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, great reformer! hide from observation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The unpleasing spectacle of Reformation.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1905">1905</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="a-naval-method" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Naval Method</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Captain Purvis, for aught we know,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never slew a Filipino;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Played exceeding well at polo,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But invited not the bolo.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though his form was big and burly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his fist was hard and knurly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his cocktail hour came early,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet he was devoid of thirst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the blood of the accurst.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inconsiderate Tagallo</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Seas of gore, however shallow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He regarded very lightly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As inutile and unsightly) ;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So he did not much frequent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That insurrectionary gent.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Captain Purvis went a-scouting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Truth to tell, he took an outing)—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Found a Filipino sleeping,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bound and took him into keeping.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Calling Sergeant-Major Gump,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They conveyed him to a pump.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Laid him on his back beneath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With his tongue between his teeth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said the captain : " We'll not thump him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But he is a spy—we'll pump him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That's our duty; information,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Secrets useful to the nation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We'll wring from him. Tell me, sir,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tell me truly, why a cur</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wags its tail—and, furthermore.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When a door Is not a door."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But that person obstlnaclous</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Answered, with a look ungracious,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he'd see them (he was witty)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Both in Helfurst—that's a city</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Silesia, I suppose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where no proper person goes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So they pumped him full of water—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Son of Temperance, or Daughter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ne'er was half so full as that,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor any poison-fevered rat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trying with a fervor frantic</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To abolish the Atlantic.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yes, that Filipino bloated</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till his snov^ry liver floated</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a lily on a pond.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his soul to the Beyond</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drifted on the strong, full tide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>" By word of mouth," from his inside.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Captain Purvis being duly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tried, the President said : " Truly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He's a water-warrior; he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would more fitly serve at sea."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So the Navy broke his fall—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rearest-Admiral of all!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By his ironclad desk he's sitting.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sometimes writing, sometimes knitting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For he's Chief (and that's enough)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the Bureau of Plum Duff.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1902">1902</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="another-aspirant" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Another Aspirant</h3>
				<p>
					<span>George Dewey, dear, I did not think that you—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So very married and so happy, too—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would go philandering with another girl</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And give your gay mustache a fetching curl</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And set your cap—I should say your cocked hat—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At Miss Columbia the like o' that.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pray what can you expect to get by throwing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sheep's eyes at one so very, very knowing?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>See how she served McKinley! All his life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He wooed her for his morganatic wife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swore that he loved her better than his soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(I'm half inclined to think, upon the whole,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She better did deserve his love) then vowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He'd marry her alive, or even aloud!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What did she? Ere his breath he could recover</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She heartlessly accepted that poor lover!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There's William Bryan of the silver tongue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old in ambition, in discretion young—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He courts her with the song, the dance, the lute,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But knows how suitors feel who do not suit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Teddy Roosevelt, plucking from its sheath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The weapon that he wears behind his teeth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Endeavors in his simple, soldier fashion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But all in vain, to touch her heart by slashin'.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Beware, my web-foot friend, beware her wiles:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fly from her sighs and disregard her smiles.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She's no fool mermaid with a comb and glass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But Satan's daughter with a breast of brass.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Put out your prow to sea again—^but hold !</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If Bryan and McKinley, all too bold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Show up along the beach with little Teddy—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, Dewey, you may fire when you are ready.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1900-04">April, 1900</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="a-learner" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Learner</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I do not think you rightly understand:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My foolish tongue imperfectly has caught</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The trick of loving words, nor, as it ought.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Serves the sweet purpose of the heart's command.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear, I'm untraveled in the golden land</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of love, and in its language all untaught,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like some poor mariner by tempest brought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Mongst alien races to a foreign strand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, pretty native, bear with me until</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My simple wants I rightly can avow—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My will to serve you with my men and ships.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For lo! already I've some little skill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the strange tongue. Ask me to kiss you now—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I'll read the riddle ere it leaves your lips!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-bridget" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To Bridget</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Have ye heard what the news is, me darlint?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Fenians have threatened the Pope!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, begorra, I think there's a snarl in't</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That's twisted it up like a rope.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From a kink in the telescope.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the news, ye must know, Biddy, reaches</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This counthry by means of a wire;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sometimes the heat o' the speeches</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Just warrups it up like a fire.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faith! who but the Divil would bother</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The likes o' the Howly Father?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And the Divil is in it, I'm fearin',</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When a gintleman's called on to chuse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Betwixt Howly Church and Ould Erin—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The shamrock and harp to refuse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or be like the murtherin' Jews.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Och! Biddy, me mind it is troublin'</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To know where me body's at home—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With half o' me sowl there in Dublin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And t'other half over In Rome!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bedad, there's a shplit in the party</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the name of O'Malley McCarty!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="after-tennyson" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">After Tennyson</h3>
				<p>
					<span>You ask me why, though ill at ease,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Within this region I subsist,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where honor's dead, and law is hissed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all men pillage as they please.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It is the land where freemen kill</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In warm debate their party foes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The land where judges come to blows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And speak the things that make us ill;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A land of base expedient;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A land where gold can justice drown ;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where Freedom's chains are handed down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From President to President;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where factions wrangle for the bread</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of honest men; where, fearing naught,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Accurst monopolies have caught</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The people in the nets they spread ;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where branded convicts execute</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The laws that in a better time</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They broke, and every kind of crime</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stalks unashamed and resolute.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Should honor e'er possess the land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And patriots control the State,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Justice rise, divine with hate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To choke the politician band,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O waft me from the harbor forth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wild winds. I'll see Alaska's sky.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Here 'twill have grown too warm, and I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will run for office in the North.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-my-bird" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To My Bird</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If I were screaming in a cage.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Parrot mine, parrot mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you were rhyming on this page,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Parrot mine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'd try to shriek a fresher bit</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of wisdom to excite your wit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Parrot mine.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All you have said is nothing new,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Parrot mine, parrot mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By Jove, I taught it all to you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Parrot mine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While you nor can, nor could, nor might</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have thought what I could care to write,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Parrot mine.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your life in order to maintain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Parrot mine, parrot mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You daily dine upon my brain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Parrot mine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My mind, a torn and mangled wreck.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is disappearing down your neck.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Parrot mine.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Well, be it so: present your bill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Parrot mine, parrot mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And on my virtues feast your fill.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Parrot mine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My vices, though, will disagree</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With you, my pet. They do with me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Parrot mine.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="business" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Business</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Two villains of the highest rank</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Set out one night to rob a bank.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They found the building, looked it o'er,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each window noted, tried each door,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scanned carefully the lidded hole</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For minstrels to cascade the coal—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In short, examined five-and-twenty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Short cuts from poverty to plenty.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But all were sealed, they saw full soon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against the minions of the moon.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Enough," said one: "I'm satisfied."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The other, smiling fair and wide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said: "I'm as highly pleased as you:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No burglar ever can get through.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fate surely prospers our design—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The booty all is yours and mine."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, full of hope, the following day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the exchange they took their way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bought, with manner free and frank,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some stock of that devoted bank;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they became, inside the year,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One President and one Cashier.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their crime I can no further trace—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The means of safety to embrace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I overdrew and left the place.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-possibility" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Possibility</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If the wicked gods were willing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(Pray it never may be true!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That a universal chilling</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Should ensue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the sentiment of loving,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If they made a great undoing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the plan of turtle-doving,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Then farewell all poet-lore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Evermore.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If there were no more of billing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">There would be no more of cooing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we all should be but owls—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Lonely fowls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blinking wonderfully wise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With our great round eyes—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sitting singly in the gloaming and no longer two and two,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As unwilling to be wedded as unpracticed how to woo;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With regard to being mated,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Asking still with aggravated</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ungrammatical acerbity: "To who? To who?"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-censor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">To a Censor</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>"The delay granted by the weakness and good nature of our judges is responsible for half the murders."</p>
						<cite epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Daily Newspaper</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Delay responsible? Why, then; my friend,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Impeach Delay and you will make an end.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thrust vile Delay in jail and let it rot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For doing all the things that it should not.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Put not good-natured judges under bond,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But make Delay in damages respond.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Minos, Ӕacus, Rhadamanthus, rolled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into one pitiless, unsmiling scold—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unsparing censor, be your thongs uncurled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To "lash the rascals naked through the world."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rascals? Nay, Rascality's the thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above whose back your knotted scourges sing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i>Your</i> satire, truly, like a razor keen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Wounds with a touch that's neither felt nor seen;"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For naught that you assail with falchion free</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has either nerves to feel or eyes to see.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against abstractions evermore you charge</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You hack no helmet and you need no targe.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That wickedness is wrong and sin a vice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That wrong's not right and foulness never nice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fearless affirm. All consequences dare:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Smite the offense and the offender spare.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Ananias and Sapphira lied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Falsehood, had you been there, had surely died.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When money-changers in the Temple sat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At money-changing you'd have whirled the "cat"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(That John-the-Baptist of the modern pen)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the brokers would have cried amen!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Good friend, if any judge deserve your blame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have you no courage, or has he no name?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon his method will you wreak your wrath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Himself all unmolested in his path?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fall to! fall to!—your club no longer draw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To beat the air or flail a man of straw.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scorn to do justice like the Saxon thrall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who cuffed the offender's shadow on a wall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let rascals in the flesh attest your zeal—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knocked on the mazzard or tripped up at heel!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We know that judges are corrupt. We know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That crimes are lively and that laws are slow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We know that lawyers lie and doctors slay;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That priests and preachers are but birds of pray;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That merchants cheat and journalists for gold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flatter the vicious while at vice they scold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis all familiar as the simple lore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That two policemen and two thieves make four.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But since, while some are wicked, some are good,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(As trees may differ though they all are wood)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Names, here and there, to show whose head is hit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bad would sentence and the good acquit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In sparing everybody none you spare:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rebukes most personal are least unfair.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fire at random if you still prefer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And swear at Dog but never kick a cur,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Permit me yet one ultimate appeal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To something that you understand and feel:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let thrift and vanity your heart persuade—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You might be read if you would learn your trade.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Good brother cynics (you have doubtless guessed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not one of you but all are here addressed)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remember this: the shaft that seeks a heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Draws all eyes after it; an idle dart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shot at some shadow flutters o'er the green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its flight unheeded and its fall unseen.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-whole-world-kin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">"The Whole World Kin"</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Liars for witnesses ; for lawyers brutes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Willing to lose their souls to win their suits;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cowards for jurors, and for judge a clown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who ne'er took up the law, yet lays it down;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Justice denied, authority abused,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the one blameless person the accused—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy courts, my country, all these dreadful years,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Move fools to laughter and the wise to tears."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So moaned an alien from beyond the foam.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come here, my lad, I think you'll feel at home.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-future-conversation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">A Future Conversation</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>If the coal strike is not settled satisfactorily I shall lead the wives of the miners in a march on Washington.</p>
						<cite epub:type="se:name.person">Mother Jones</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>"What is this I see, what is this I see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In this year of our Lord 3003?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What ruins are spread in confusion wide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over hill and plain by Potomac's side?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"These, traveler, these are the leveled stones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Attesting the prowess of Mother Jones."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"O plowman, I never in history grew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the high attainments of Smith Carew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose noble book, 'The Decline and Fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of America,' holds the respect of all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Mother Jones I often have heard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But thought—pray pardon if I have erred—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the ancient lady became renowned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By embroidering cats on a velvet ground."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Your error is wide, remote, extreme:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not the needle's shine, but the sabre's gleam</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Delighted of old her heroic soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made her unloved of the Lords of Coal.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In that distant day when the miner 'rose,'</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to spite his countenance severed his nose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And owners permitted each mine of the trust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fill up with water to lay his dust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She marshaled the women, with sabre and gun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And marched with banners on Washington."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I see, I see in these ruins gray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through which you are urging your plowshare gay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The work of their hands, slender and white,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That plied the pick and the crowbar bright."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"The cannon, my friend,—but no harm was done,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For before the city was overrun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the warrior-dames of that rebel rout</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The politicians had cleaned it out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the stones that about the plain they spread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were served to the poor when they asked for bread."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"O affable plowman, Fd fain admire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your tale, but, alas, I'm myself a liar!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Besides, I've a better one, which, mayhap.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You'd like to be hearing."</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="right">"Giddap, giddap"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-hesitating-veteran" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Hesitating Veteran</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When I was young and full of faith</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And other fads that youngsters cherish</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A cry rose as of one that saith</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With emphasis: "Help or I perish!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twas heard in all the land, and men</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sound were each to each repeating.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It made my heart beat faster then</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Than any heart can now be beating.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For the world is old and the world is gray—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Grown prudent and, I guess, more witty.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She's cut her wisdom teeth, they say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And doesn't now go in for Pity.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Besides, the melancholy cry</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was that of one, 'tis now conceded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose plight no one beneath the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Felt half so poignantly as he did.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Moreover, he was black. And yet</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That sentimental generation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With an austere compassion set</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Its face and faith to the occasion.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then there were hate and strife to spare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And various hard knocks a-plenty;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I ('twas more than my true share,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I must confess) took five-and-twenty.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That all is over now—the reign</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of love and trade stills all dissensions,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the clear heavens arch again</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Above a land of peace and pensions.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The black chap—at the last we gave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Him everything that he had cried for,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though many white chaps in the grave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">'Twould puzzle to say what they died for.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I hope he's better off—I trust</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That his society and his master's</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are worth the price we paid, and must</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Continue paying, in disasters;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But sometimes doubts press thronging round</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">('Tis mostly when my hurts are aching)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If war for union was a sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And profitable undertaking.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'Tis said they mean to take away</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Negro's vote for he's unlettered.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis true he sits in darkness day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And night, as formerly, when fettered;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But pray observe—howe'er he vote</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To whatsoever party turning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He'll be with gentlemen of note</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And wealth and consequence and learning.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With saints and sages on each side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How could a fool through lack of knowledge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vote wrong? If learning is no guide</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Why ought one to have been in college?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Son of Day, O Son of Night!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What are your preferences made of?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know not which of you is right,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor which to be the more afraid of.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The world is old and the world is bad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And creaks and grinds upon its axis;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And man's an ape and the gods are mad!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">There's nothing sure, not even our taxes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No mortal man can Truth restore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or say where she is to be sought for.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know what uniform I wore—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O, that I knew which side I fought for!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-years-casualties" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Year's "Casualties"</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Slain as they lay by the secret, slow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pitiless hand of an unseen foe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two score thousand old soldiers have crossed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The river to join the loved and lost.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the space of a year their spirits fled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Silent and white, to the camp of the dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One after one, they fall asleep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the pension agents awake to weep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And orphaned statesmen are loud in their wail</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the souls flit by on the evening gale.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Father of Battles, pray give us release</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the horrors of peace, the horrors of peace!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="inspiration" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Inspiration</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O hoary sculptor, stay thy hand:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I fain would view the lettered stone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What carvest thou?—perchance some grand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And solemn fancy all thine own.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For oft to know the fitting word</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some humble worker God permits.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">"Jain Ann Meginnis,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Agid 3rd.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">He givith His beluved fits."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="today" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To-day</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I saw a man who knelt in prayer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And heard him say:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I'll lay my inmost spirit bare</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To-day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Lord, for to-morrow and its need</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I do not pray;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let me upon my neighbor feed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To-day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Let me my duty duly shirk</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And run away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From any form or phase of work</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To-day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"From Thy commands exempted still</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Let me obey</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The promptings of my private will</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To-day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Let me no word profane, no lie</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Unthinking say</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If anyone is standing by</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To-day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"My secret sins and vices grave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Let none betray;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The scoffer's jeers I do not crave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To-day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"And if to-day my fortune all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Should ebb away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Help me on other men's to fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To-day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"So, for to-morrow and its mite</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I do not pray;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just give me everything in sight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To-day."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I cried: "Amen!" He rose and ran</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like oil away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I said: "I've seen an honest man</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To-day."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-alibi" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Alibi</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A famous journalist, who long</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had told the great unheaded throng</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whate'er they thought, by day or night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was true as Holy Writ, and right,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was caught in—well, on second thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is enough that he was caught,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And being thrown in jail became</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fuel of a public flame.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"<i>Vox populi vox Dei</i>," said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The jailer. Inxling bent his head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without remark: that motto good</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In bold-faced type had always stood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above the columns where his pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had rioted in praise of men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all they said—provided he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was sure they mostly did agree.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Meanwhile a sharp and bitter strife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To take, or save, the culprit's life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or liberty (which, I suppose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was much the same to him) arose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Outside. The journal that his pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Adorned denounced his crime—but then</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its editor in secret tried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To have the indictment set aside.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The opposition papers swore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His father was a rogue before,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all his wife's relations were</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like him and similar to her.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They begged their readers to subscribe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dollar each to make a bribe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That any Judge would feel was large</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enough to prove the gravest charge—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unless, it might be, the defense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Put up superior evidence.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The law's traditional delay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was all too short: the trial day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dawned red and menacing. The Judge</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sat on the Bench and wouldn't budge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the motions counsel made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could not move <i>him</i>—and there he stayed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"The case must now proceed," he said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"While I am just in heart and head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It happens—as, indeed, it ought—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Both sides with equal sums have bought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My favor: I can try the cause</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Impartially." (Prolonged applause.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The prisoner was now arraigned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And said that he was greatly pained</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be suspected—<em>he</em>, whose pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had charged so many other men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With crimes and misdemeanors! "Why,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He said, a tear in either eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"If men who live by crying out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Stop thief!' are not themselves from doubt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of their integrity exempt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let all forego the vain attempt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make a reputation! Sir,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'm innocent, and I demur."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whereat a thousand voices cried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amain he manifestly lied—</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i>Vox populi</i> as loudly roared</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As bull by <i>picadores</i> gored,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In his own coin receiving pay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make a Spanish holiday.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The jury—twelve good men and true—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were then sworn in to see it through,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And each made solemn oath that he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As any babe unborn was free</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From prejudice, opinion, thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Respectability, brains—aught</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That could disqualify; and some</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Explained that they were deaf and dumb.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A better twelve, his Honor said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was rare, except among the dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The witnesses were called and sworn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tales they told made angels mourn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the Good Book they'd kissed became</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Red with the consciousness of shame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whenever one of them approached</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The truth, "That witness wasn't coached,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your Honor!" cried the lawyers both.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Strike out his testimony," quoth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The learned judge: "This Court denies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its ear to stories which surprise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hold that witnesses exempt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From coaching all are in contempt."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Both Prosecution and Defense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Applauded the judicial sense,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the spectators all averred</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such wisdom they had never heard:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twas plain the prisoner would be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Found guilty in the first degree.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Meanwhile that wight's pale cheek confessed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The nameless terrors in his breast.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He felt remorseful, too, because</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He wasn't half they said he was.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"If I'd been such a rogue," he mused</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On opportunities unused,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I might have easily become</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As wealthy as Methusalum."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This journalist adorned, alas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The middle, not the Bible, class.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With equal skill the lawyers' pleas</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Attested their divided fees.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each gave the other one the lie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then helped him frame a sharp reply.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Good Lord! it was a bitter fight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lasted all the day and night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When once or oftener the roar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had silenced the judicial snore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The speaker suffered for the sport</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By fining for contempt of court.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Twelve jurors' noses good and true</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unceasing sang the trial through,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And even <i>vox populi</i> was spent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In rattles through a nasal vent.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clerk, bailiff, constables and all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heard Morpheus sound the trumpet call</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To arms—his arms—and all fell in</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save counsel for the Man of Sin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That thaumaturgist stood and swayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wand their faculties obeyed—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That magic wand which, like a flame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leapt, wavered, quivered and became</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A wonder-worker—known among</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ignoble vulgar as a Tongue.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>How long, O Lord, how long my verse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Runs on for better or for worse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In meter which o'ermasters me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Octosyllabically free!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A meter which, the poets say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No power of restraint can stay;—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A hard-mouthed meter, suited well</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To him who, having naught to tell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must hold attention as a trout</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is held, by paying out and out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The slender line which else would break</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should one attempt the fish to take.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus tavern guides who've naught to show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But some adjacent curio</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By devious trails their patrons lead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And make them think 't is far indeed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where was I?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">While the lawyer talked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rogue took up his feet and walked:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While all about him, roaring, slept,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the street he calmly stepped.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In very truth, the man who thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The people's voice from heaven had caught</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God's inspiration took a change</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of venue—it was passing strange!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Straight to his editor he went</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that ingenious person sent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A Negro to impersonate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fugitive. In adequate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Disguise he took his vacant place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And buried in his arms his face.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When all was done the lawyer stopped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And silence like a bombshell dropped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the Court: judge, jury, all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within that venerable hall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Except the deaf and dumb, indeed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And one or two whom death had freed)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Awoke and tried to look as though</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slumber was all they did not know.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And now that tireless lawyer-man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Took breath, and then again began:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Your Honor, if you did attend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To what I've urged (my learned friend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nodded concurrence) to support</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The motion I have made, this court</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May soon adjourn. With your assent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I've shown abundant precedent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For introducing now, though late,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>New evidence to exculpate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My client. So, if you'll allow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'll prove an <i>alibi</i>!" "What?—how?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stammered the judge. "Well, yes, I can't</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deny your showing, and I grant</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The motion. Do I understand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You undertake to prove—good land!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That when the crime—you mean to show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your client wasn't <i>there</i>?" "O, no,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I cannot quite do that, I find:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My <i>alibi's</i> another kind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of <i>alibi</i>,—I'll make it clear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your Honor, that he isn't <i>here</i>."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Darky here upreared his head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tranquillity affrighted fled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And consternation reigned instead!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-meeting" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Meeting</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Good morning," said Garfield, extending his hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Mr. Parnell in the Heavenly Land.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Good morning, good morning," said Mr. Parnell;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I hope (though 'tis needless to ask) you are well.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How sweetly that chorus of cherubim sings!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pray how do you manage these cumbersome wings?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This halo—I dare say I'm terribly green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But somehow I can't make it hold my dudheen.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This harp is all right, but the shamrock I miss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And—O, by the way, in this region of bliss</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I trust that the rascally schemer who wrote</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Morey epistle, which lost you the vote</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Electoral, I am not likely to meet?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then Garfield, his €yes on the cloud at his feet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Burned in the cheeks with a fervor divine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That conquered his halo's inferior shine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then said, with a look that was level and far:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I fear (to be honest and frank) that you are.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The person who wrote that mysterious, queer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bad letter is here—ah, exceedingly here."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he smiled in an infantile sort of a way.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a man with a qualm, and went on to say:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I'm happy to meet you. What news from below?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did it look when you left there as if they would show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who wrote, with a villainous purpose in view,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The peppery letters imputed to you ? "</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Said Mr. Parnell: "Yes, it did, I must say—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In fact, that's the reason I hastened away."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then they sang a psalm, and they sang so well</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Murchison heard it while sobbing in Hell.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="j-f-b" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">
					<abbr>J. F. B.</abbr>
				</h3>
				<p>
					<span>How well this man unfolded to our view</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The world's beliefs of Death and Heaven and Hell—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This man whose own convictions none could tell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor if his maze of reason had a clew.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dogmas he wrote for daily bread, but knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The fair philosophies of doubt so well</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That while we listened to his words there fell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some that were strangely comforting, though true.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Marking how wise we grew upon his doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We said: "If so, by groping in the night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He can proclaim some certain paths of trust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How great our profit if he saw about</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His feet the highways leading to the light."</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Now he sees all. Ah, Christ! his mouth is dust!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-dying-statesman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Dying Statesman</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It is a politician man—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He draweth near his end,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And friends weep round that partisan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of every man the friend.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Between the Known and the Unknown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He lieth on the strand;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The light upon the sea is thrown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That lay upon the land.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It shineth in his glazing eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It burneth on his face;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God send that when we come to die</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We know that sign of grace!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Upon his lips his blessed sprite</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Poiseth her joyous wing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"How is it with thee, child of light?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dost hear the angels sing?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"The song I hear, the crown I see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And know that God is love.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Farewell, dark world—I go to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A postmaster above!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For him no monumental arch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But, O, 'tis good and brave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see the Grand Old Party march</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To office o'er his grave!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-death-of-grant" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Death of Grant</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Father! whose hard and cruel law</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is part of thy compassion's plan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thy works presumptuously we scan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For what the prophets say they saw.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Unbidden still the awful slope</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Walling us in we climb to gain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Assurance of the shining plain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That faith has certified to hope.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In vain!—beyond the circling hill</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The shadow and the cloud abide.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Subdue the doubt, our spirits guide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To trust the Record and be still.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To trust it loyally as he</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who, heedful of his high design,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ne'er raised a seeking eye to thine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But wrought thy will unconsciously,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Disputing not of chance or fate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor questioning of cause or creed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For anything but duty's deed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Too simply wise, too humbly great.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The cannon syllabled his name;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His shadow shifted o'er the land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Portentous, as at his command</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Successive cities sprang to flame!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He fringed the continent with fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The rivers ran in lines of light!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thy will be done on earth—if right</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or wrong he cared not to inquire.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His was the heavy hand, and his</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The service of the despot blade;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His the soft answer that allayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>War's giant animosities.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let us have peace: our clouded eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fill, Father, with another light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That we may see with clearer sight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy servant's soul in Paradise.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-fountain-refilled" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Fountain Refilled</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Of Hans Pietro Shanahan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Who was a most ingenious man)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Muse of History records</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he'd get drunk as twenty lords.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He'd get so truly drunk that men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stood by to marvel at him when</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His slow advance along the street</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was but a vain cycloidal feat.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And when 'twas fated that he fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a wide geographical sprawl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They signified assent by sounds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heard (faintly) at its utmost bounds.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And yet this Mr. Shanahan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Who was a most ingenious man)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cast not on wine his thirsty eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When it was red or otherwise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All malt, or spirituous, tope</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He loathed as cats dissent from soap;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cider, if it touched his lip,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Evoked a groan at every sip.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But still, as heretofore explained,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He not infrequently was grained.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(I'm not of those who call it "corned."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Coarse speech I've always duly scorned.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Though truth to say, and that's but right,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strong drink (it hath an adder's bite!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was what had put him in the mud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The only kind he used was blood!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Alas, that an immortal soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Addicted to the flowing bowl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The emptied flagon should again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Replenish from a neighbor's vein.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But, Mr. Shanahan was so</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Constructed, and his taste that low.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor more deplorable was he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In kind of thirst than in degree;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For sometimes fifty souls would pay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The debt of nature in a day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To free him from the shame and pain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of dread Sobriety's misreign.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His native land, proud of its sense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of his unique inabstinence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Abated something of its pride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At thought of his unfilled inside.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And some the boldness had to say</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twere well if he were called away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To slake his thirst forevermore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In oceans of celestial gore.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But Hans Pietro Shanahan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Who was a most ingenious man)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knew that his thirst was mortal; so</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remained unsainted here below—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Unsainted and unsaintly, for</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He neither went to glory nor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To abdicate his power deigned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where, under Providence, he reigned,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But kept his Boss's power accurst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To serve his wild uncommon thirst.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which now had grown so truly great</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was a drain upon the State.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Soon, soon there came a time, alas!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When he turned down an empty glass—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All practicable means were vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His special wassail to obtain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In vain poor Decimation tried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To furnish forth the needful tide;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Civil War as vainly shed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her niggard offering of red.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Poor Shanahan! his thirst increased</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until he wished himself deceased,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Invoked the firearm and the knife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But could not die to save his life!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He was so dry his own veins made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No answer to the seeking blade;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So parched that when he would have passed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Away he could not breathe his last.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'Twas then, when almost in despair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Unlaced his shoon, unkempt his hair)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He saw as in a dream a way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To wet afresh his mortal clay.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yes, Hans Pietro Shanahan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Who was a most ingenious man)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saw freedom, and with joy and pride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Thalassa! (or Thalatta!)" cried.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Straight to the Aldermen went he,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With many a "pull" and many a fee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And many a most corrupt "combine"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(The Press for twenty cents a line</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Held out and fought him—O, God, bless</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forevermore the holy Press!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till he had franchises complete</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For trolley lines on every street!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The cars were builded and, they say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were run on rails laid every way—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rhomboidal roads, and circular,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And oval—everywhere a car—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Square, dodecagonal (in great</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Esteem the shape called Figure 8)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And many other kinds of shapes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As various as tails of apes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No other group of men's abodes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>E'er had such odd electric roads,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That winding in and winding out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Began and ended all about.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No city had, unless in Mars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That city's wealth of trolley cars.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They ran by day, they flew by night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And O, the sorry, sorry sight!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And Hans Pietro Shanahan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Who was a most ingenious man)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Incessantly, the Muse records,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lay drunk as twenty thousand lords!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="laus-lucis" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Laus Lucis</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>Theosophists are about to build a "Temple for the revival of the Mysteries of Antiquity."</p>
						<cite>Vide the Newspapers, passim</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Each to his taste: some men prefer to play</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At mystery, as others at piquet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some sit in mystic meditation; some</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Parade the street with tambourine and drum.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One studies to decipher ancient lore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which, proving stuff, he studies all the more;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Another swears that learning is but good</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To darken things already understood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then writes upon Simplicity so well</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That none agree on what he wants to tell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And future ages will declare his pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inspired by gods with messages to men.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To found an ancient order those devote</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their time—with ritual, regalia, goat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blankets for tossing, chairs of little ease</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the modern inconveniences;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These, saner, frown upon unmeaning rites</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And go to church for rational delights.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So all are suited, shallow and profound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The prophets prosper and the world goes round.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For me—unread in the occult, I'm fain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To damn all mysteries alike as vain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spurn the obscure and base my faith upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Revelations of the good St. John.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="nanine" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Nanine</h3>
				<p>
					<span>We heard a song-bird trilling—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">'Twas but a night ago.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such rapture he was rilling</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As only we could know.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This morning he is flinging</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His music from the tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But something in the singing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is not the same to me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His inspiration fails him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or he has lost his skill.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nanine, Nanine, what ails him</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That he should sing so ill?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nanine is not replying—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She hears no earthly song.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sun and bird are lying</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the night is, O, so long!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="technology" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Technology</h3>
				<p>
					<span>'Twas a serious person with locks of gray</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And a figure like a crescent;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His gravity, clearly, had come to stay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But his smile was evanescent.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He stood and conversed with a neighbor, and</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With (likewise) a high falsetto;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he stabbed his forefinger into his hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As if it had been a stiletto.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His words, like the notes of a tenor drum,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Came out of his head unblended,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the wonderful altitude of some</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was exceptionally splendid.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>While executing a shake of the head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With the hand, as it were, of a master,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This agonizing old gentleman said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"'Twas a truly sad disaster!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Four hundred and ten longs and shorts in all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Went down"—he paused and snuffled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A single tear was observed to fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the old man's drum was muffled.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"A very calamitous year," he said.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And again his head-piece hoary</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He shook, and another pearl he shed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As if he wept <i>con amore.</i></span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"O lacrymose person," I cried, "pray why</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Should these failures so affect you?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With speculators in stocks no eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That's normal would ever connect you."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He focused his orbs upon mine and smiled</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In a sinister sort of manner.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Young man," he said, "your words are wild:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I spoke of the steamship 'Hanner.'</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"For she has went down in a howlin' squall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And my heart is nigh to breakin'—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Four hundred and ten longs and shorts in all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Will never need undertakin'!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I'm in the business myself," said he,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"And you've mistook my expression;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I uses the technical terms, you see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Employed in my perfession."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That old undertaker has joined the throng</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On the other side of the River,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I'm still unhappy to think I'm a "long,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And a tape-line makes me shiver.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-reply-to-a-letter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Reply to a Letter</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O nonsense, parson—tell me not they thrive</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And jubilate who follow your dictation.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The good are the unhappiest lot alive—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I know they are from careful observation.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If freedom from the terrors of damnation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lengthens the visage like a telescope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lacrymation is a sign of hope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Then I'll continue, in my dreadful plight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To tread the dusky paths of sin, and grope</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Contentedly without your lantern's light;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And though in many a bog beslubbered quite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Refuse to flay me with ecclesiastic soap.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You say 'tis a sad world, seeing I'm condemned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With many a million others of my kidney.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each continent's Hammed, Japheted and Shemmed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With sinners—worldlings like Sir Philip Sidney</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And scoffers like Voltaire, who thought it bliss</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To simulate respect for Genesis—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who bent the mental knee as if in prayer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But mocked at Moses underneath his hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And like an angry gander bowed his head to hiss.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Seeing such as these, who die without contrition,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must go to—beg your pardon, sir—perdition,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sons of light, you tell me, can't be gay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But count it sin of the sort called omission</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The groan to smother or the tear to stay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or fail to—what is that they live by?—pray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So down they flop, and the whole serious race is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Put by divine compassion on a praying basis.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Well, if you take it so to heart, while yet</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our own hearts are so light with nature's leaven,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You'll weep indeed when we in Hades sweat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And you look down upon us out of Heaven.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In fancy, lo! I see your wailing shades</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thronging the crystal battlements. Cascades</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of tears spring singing from each golden spout,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Run roaring from the verge with hoarser sound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dash downward through the glimmering profound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quench the tormenting flame and put the Devil out!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Presumptuous ass! to you no power belongs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To pitchfork me to Heaven upon the prongs</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of a bad pen, whose disobedient sputter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With less of ink than incoherence fraught</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Befits the folly that it tries to utter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Brains, I observe, as well as tongues, can stutter:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You suffer from impediment of thought.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Save when considering your bread-and-butter.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When next you "point the way to Heaven," take care:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your fingers all being thumbs, point, Heaven knows where!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Farewell, poor dunce! your letter though I blame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bears witness how my anger I can tame:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I've called you everything except your hateful name!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-oscar-wilde" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To Oscar Wilde</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Because from Folly's lips you got</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some babbled mandate to subdue</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The realm of Common Sense, and you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made promise and considered not—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Because you strike a random blow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At what you do not understand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And beckon with a friendly hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To something that you do not know,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I hold no speech of your desert,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor answer with porrected shield</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The wooden weapon that you wield,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But meet you with a cast of dirt.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Dispute with such a thing as you—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Twin show to the two-headed calf?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Why, sir, if I repress my laugh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'T is more than half the world can do.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1882">1882</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="born-leaders-of-men" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Born Leaders of Men</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Tuckerton Tamerlane Morey Mahosh</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Is a statesman of world-wide fame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With a notable knack at rhetorical bosh</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To glorify somebody's name—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Somebody chosen by Tuckerton's masters</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To succor the country from divers disasters</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Portentous to Mr. Mahosh.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Percy O'Halloran Tarpy Cabee</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Is in the political swim.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He cares not a button for men, not he:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Great principles captivate him—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Principles cleverly cut out and fitted</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Percy's capacity, duly submitted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And fought for by Mr. Cabee.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Drusus Turn Swinnerton Porfer Fitzurse</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Holds office the most of his life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For men nor for principles cares he a curse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">But much for his neighbor's wife.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Ship of State leaks, but <em>he</em> doesn't pump any—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Messrs. Mahosh, Cabee &amp; Company</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pump for good Mr. Fitzurse.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-crime-of-1903" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Crime of 1903</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Time was, not very long ago,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As by historians time is reckoned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When first of virtues here below</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was hatred of secession, though</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some swore it wasn't even second;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But these (they mostly were down South)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Have all renounced their view with candor—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some tardily by word of mouth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some, earlier, in a manner grander.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To stamp their error out, 'tis true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We paid enough of blood (the treasure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would pave with gold an avenue)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To float a battleship or two,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If so the cost we choose to measure.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twas worth it all, we say and say—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The President has often said it;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so it was—to us; and they</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Say nothing, as a rule, who shed it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Times change and we change with them," men</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of old renown averred in Latin;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that's as true on tongue or pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This blessed century as when</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The seat of empire Caesar sat in.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For see how many play their parts</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As ardent lovers of secession.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Promoting it with all their hearts—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In countries out of our possession.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O men of variable views,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How can you be so light and fickle ?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is it because you think the news</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Panama portends no bruise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To you, nor payment of a nickel?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay, is It that you scent a gain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In troubles of a neighbor nation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so appraise her loss and pain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As nothing worth a valuation?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Those Ills 'tis easy to endure</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That light upon and sting another—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That's Christian fortitude; but sure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There's somewhere an account of your</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Least feeling toward a hapless brother.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Himself may show by deed and speech</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Less racial sympathies than tribal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But—well, this is no place to preach;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sermon's mostly in the Bible.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We're false to trust and quick to spy</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The fissure in a friendly armor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even Freedom can no more rely</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Upon our promise not to harm her.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Guardian of Continents,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My country! shall that evil dower,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The passion for preeminence.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cry from thy seaward battlements</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A soul already drunk with power?</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1903">1903</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="for-expulsion" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">For Expulsion</h3>
				<p>
					<span>They say. Brig. Roberts, you have seven wives,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And every one a beauty! As to that</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'm not informed; in the domestic hives</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Utah, where I've sometimes hung my hat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Not all the dames were comely. Like a cat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That has nine lives and must support them all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You have to hustle round a bit, I fancy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now don't you really agree with Paul</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That women are the devil?—even Nancy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Mary Jane and Caroline and Ella</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Ruth and Adeline and Isabella!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If I had half as many wives as you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(That's three wives and a half as I compute)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hardly know what I'd be driven to.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I might in desperation play the flute,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or Congress find in me a raw recruit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, I suppose, the country would uprise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And say the things I least should care to hear:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And virtuous editors would damn my eyes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And cartilaginous virgins pain my ear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now and then some pious person clamor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blessed with one wife, ten wenches and no grammar.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All that and more you're suffering, my friend,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For, having married all the maids you saw,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You contumaciously refuse to bend</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A corrigible back to altered law</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And leave them (all but one) lamenting. Pshaw!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don't be so squeamish. Yes, the children may</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lament a little too when made acquainted</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With their mischance in being put away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And your own countenance with shame be painted;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that's the smallest price for which we'll sell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A seat in Congress and a bed in Hell.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="judex-jocosus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Judex Jocosus</h3>
				<p>
					<span>We blench when maniacs to dance begin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What makes a skull so dreadful is the grin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When horrible and ludicrous unite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our sense of humor does but feed our fright.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the shocked spirit with a double dread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Might see a monkey watching by the dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or headsman part a neck, without a fault.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While turning o'er the block a somersault.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, Judge Hilario, the untroubled awe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And reverence men cherish for the law</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Turn all to terror when with wit profound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tricksy humor you the law expound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More frightful sounds the felon's doom by half</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From lips still twisted to an idiot laugh.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="graft" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">"Graft"</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Cuba, our pupil, let thy glory shine—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our own is brighter, but effulgent thine!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lately thine arms struck terror to the foe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now thy hands bring treasuries to woe!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Daughter of Terrors, Mother of Alarms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Courage himself may fly before thine arms;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But O, what thing escapes, what thing withstands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The power of those comprehensive hands?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-tale-of-a-crime" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Tale of a Crime</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Once, in the olden time, a certain King</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(But where he reigned I know not) said: "Go bring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My Chief Adviser here before the throne.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cut his head off clear down to the bone! "</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"With pleasure, Sire," said—keen to earn his wage—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The High Dissuader from the Sin of Age;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>" But kings should still be civil, even when just:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You'll charge the villain with some crime, I trust?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Why, that's no more than fair," the King replied.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They brought the culprit in, securely tied.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the King said : "Let some one who can read</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stand forward and unfold the Golden Screed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bright with the names of all the sins and crimes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And vices ever known from ancient times.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We'll fit the fellow for the headsman's prank</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With one appropriate to his face and rank"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In drowsy monotone the Lector read</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shining list, beginning at the head.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(<i xml:lang="fr">Lèse majesté</i> was naturally first—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of crimes conceivable, the blackest, worst!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As each was named the prisoner addressed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The throne and, as the law compelled, confessed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twas fatal not to: in that olden day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Little was heard about the law's delay.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But still the royal taste could find for him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No crime well suited to the royal whim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, wearied by the reader's droning voice.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sovereign fell asleep, nor made a choice—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Snored like an organ till the stones were jarred</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Distinguishing the palace from the yard.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Meantime, the accused continued to confess,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each nod said "guilty" and each look said "yes."</span>
				</p>
				<p><span>And still the monarch slept: each courtier feared</span><br/>
				<span>To wake him lest himself should "lose his beard."</span><br/>
				<span>('Twas a fine euphemism, and meant his head—</span><br/>
				<span>Some things for prudence are obliquely said.)</span><br/>
				<i xml:lang="la">"Finis"</i> the reader said, and roundabout <span>Fell silence like a loud awakening shout!</span><br/>
				<span>The startled sovereign left a snore half-snored—</span><br/>
				<span>"That's what the scoundrel's guilty of!" he roared.</span></p>
				<p>
					<span>So there before the king upon his throne.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They cut his head off clean down to the bone!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the devils made a joyous din</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To celebrate the new and lovely sin.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-the-bartholdi-statue" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To the Bartholdi Statue</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O Liberty, God-gifted—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Young and immortal maid—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In your high hand uplifted;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The torch declares your trade.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Its crimson menace, flaming</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Upon the sea and shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is, trumpet-like, proclaiming</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That Law shall be no more.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Austere incendiary,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We're blinking in the light;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where is your customary</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Grenade of dynamite?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where are your staves and switches</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For men of gentle birth?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your mask and dirk for riches?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your chains for wit and worth?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Perhaps, you've brought the halters</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You used in the old days,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When round religion's altars</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You stabled Cromwell's bays?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Behind you, unsuspected,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Have you the axe, fair wench,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherewith you once collected</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A poll-tax from the French?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>America salutes you—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Preparing to "disgorge."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Take everything that suits you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And marry Henry George.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1894">1894</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="an-unmerry-christmas" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Unmerry Christmas</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Christmas, you tell me, comes but once a year.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One place it never comes, and that is here.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here, in these pages no good wishes spring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No well-worn greetings tediously ring—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Christmas greetings are like pots of ore:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hollower they are they ring the more.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here shall no holly cast a spiny shade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor mistletoe my solitude invade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No trinket-laden vegetable come,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No jorum steam with Sheolate of rum.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No shrilling children shall their voices rear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hurrah for Christmas without Christmas cheer!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No presents, if you please—I know too well</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What Herbert Spencer, if he didn't tell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(I know not if he did) yet might have told</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of present-giving in the days of old,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Early Man with gifts propitiated</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The chiefs whom most he doubted, feared and hated,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or tendered them in hope to reap some rude</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Advantage from the taker's gratitude.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since thus the Gift its origin derives</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(How much of its first character survives</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You know as well as I) my stocking's tied,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My pocket buttoned—with my soul inside.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I save my money and I save my pride.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Dinner? Yes; thank you—just a baby's body</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Done to a nutty brown, and a tear toddy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To give me appetite; and as to drink,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About a half a jug of blood, I think,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will do; for still I love the good red wine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Coagulating well, with wrinkles fine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fretting the satin surface of its flood.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O tope of kings—divine Falernian—blood!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Duse take the shouting fowls upon the limb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The kneeling cattle and the rising hymn!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has not a pagan rights to be regarded—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His heart assaulted and his ear bombarded</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With sentiments and sounds that good old Pan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even in his demonium would ban?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No, friends—no Christmas here, for I have sworn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To keep my heart hard and my knees unworn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enough you have of jester, player, priest:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I as the skeleton attend your feast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the mad revelry to make a lull</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With shaken finger and with bobbing skull.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>However you my services may flout,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Philosophy disdain and reason doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I mean to hold in customary state,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My dismal revelry and celebrate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My yearly rite until the crack o' doom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ignore the cheerful season's warmth and bloom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cultivate an oasis of gloom.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="by-a-defeated-litigant" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">By a Defeated Litigant</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Liars for witnesses; for lawyers brutes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who lose their tempers to retrieve their suits;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cowards for jurors; and for judge a clown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who ne'er took up the law, yet lays it down;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Justice denied, authority abused,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the one honest person the accused—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy courts, my country, all these awful years,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Move fools to laughter and the wise to tears.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-inscription-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">An Inscription</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>For a Proposed Monument in Washington to Him who Made it Beautiful.</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Erected to "Boss" Shepherd by the dear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Good folk he lived and moved among in peace—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Guarded on either hand by the police,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With soldiers in his front and in his rear.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="from-virginia-to-paris" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">From Virginia to Paris</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The polecat, sovereign of its native wood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dashes damnation upon bad and good;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The health of all the upas trees impairs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By exhalations deadlier than theirs;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poisons the rattlesnake and warts the toad—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The creeks go rotten and the rocks corrode!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She shakes o'er breathless hill and shrinking dale</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The horrid aspergillus of her tail!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From every saturated hair, till dry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The spargent fragrances divergent fly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deafen the earth and scream along the sky!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Removed to alien scenes, amid the strife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of urban odors to ungladden life—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where gas and sewers and dead dogs conspire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flesh to torture and the soul to fire—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where all the "well defined and several stinks"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Known to mankind hold revel and high jinks—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Humbled in spirit, smitten with a sense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of lost distinction, leveled eminence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She suddenly resigns her baleful trust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor ever lays again our mortal dust.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her powers atrophied, her vigor sunk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She lives deodorized, a sweeter skunk.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-mute-inglorious-milton" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A "Mute Inglorious Milton"</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"O, I'm the Unaverage Man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But you never have heard of me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For my brother, the Average Man, outran</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My fame with rapiditee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And I'm sunk in Oblivion's sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But my bully big brother the world can span</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With his wide notorietee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I do everything that I can</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To make 'em attend to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the papers ignore the Unaverage Man</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With a weird uniformitee."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So sang with a dolorous note</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A voice that I heard from the beach;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the sable waters it seemed to float</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like a mortal part of speech.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sea was Oblivion's sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And I cried as I plunged to swim:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"The Unaverage Man shall reside with me."</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But he didn't—I stayed with him!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-free-traders-lament" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Free Trader's Lament</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Oft from a trading-boat I purchased spice</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And shells and corals, brought for my inspection</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the fair tropics—paid a Christian price</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And was content in my fool's paradise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where never had been heard the word "Protection."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'Twas my sole island; there I dwelt alone—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No customs-house, collector nor collection,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But a man came, who, in a pious tone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Condoled with me that I had never known</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The manifest advantage of Protection.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So, when the trading-boat arrived one day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He threw a stink-pot into its mid-section.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The traders paddled for their lives away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor came again into that haunted bay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The blessed home thereafter of Protection.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then down he sat, that philanthropic man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And spat upon some mud of his selection,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And worked it, with his knuckles in a pan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To shapes of shells and coral things, and span</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A thread of song in glory of Protection.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He baked them in the sun. His air devout</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Enchanted me. I made a genuflexion:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"God help you, gentle sir," I said. "No doubt,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He answered gravely, "I'll get on without</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Assistance now that we have got Protection."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thenceforth I bought his wares—at what a price</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For shells and corals of such imperfection!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Ah, now," said he, "your lot is truly nice."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But still in all that isle there was no spice</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To season to my taste that dish, Protection.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="subterranean-phantasies" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Subterranean Phantasies</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I died. As meekly in the earth I lay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With shriveled fingers reverently folded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The worm—uncivil engineer!—my clay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Tunneled industriously, and the mole did.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My body could not dodge them, but my soul did;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For that had flown from this terrestrial ball</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I was rid of it for good and all.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So there I lay, debating what to do—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What measures might most usefully be taken</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To circumvent the subterranean crew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of anthropophagi and save my bacon.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My fortitude was all this while unshaken,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But any gentleman, of course, protests</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against receiving uninvited guests.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>However proud he might be of his meats,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Not even Apicius, nor, I think, Lucullus,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wasted on tramps his culinary sweets;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"<i>Aut Cӕsar</i>," say judicious hosts, "<i>aut nullus</i>."</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And though when Marcius came unbidden Tullus</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Aufidius feasted him because he starved,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Marcius by Tullus afterward was carved.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We feed the hungry, as the book commands</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(For men might question else our orthodoxy)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But do not care to see the outstretched hands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And so we minister to them by proxy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When Want, in his improper person, knocks he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Finds we're engaged. The graveworm's very fresh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To think we like his presence in the flesh.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So, as I said, I lay in doubt; in all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That underworld no judges could determine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My rights. When Death approaches them they fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And falling, naturally soil their ermine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And still below ground, as above, the vermin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That work by dark and silent methods win</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The case—the burial case that one is in.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Cases at law so slowly get ahead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Even when the right is visibly unclouded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That if all men are classed as quick and dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The judges all are dead, though some unshrouded.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pray Jove that when they're actually crowded</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On Styx's brink, and Charon rows in sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His bark prove worse than Cerberus's bite.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah! Cerberus, if you had but begot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A race of three-mouthed dogs for man to nourish</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And woman to caress, the muse had not</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lamented the decay of virtues currish,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And triple-hydrophobia now would flourish,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For barking, biting, kissing to employ</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Canine repeaters were indeed a joy.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lord! how we cling to this vile world! Here I,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whose dust was laid ere I began this carping,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By moles and worms and such familiar fry</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Run through and through, am singing still and harping</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of mundane matters—flatting, too, and sharping.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hate the Angel of the Sleeping Cup:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I'm for getting—and for shutting—up.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-memoriam" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">In Memoriam</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Beauty (they called her) wasn't a maid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of many things in the world afraid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She wasn't a maid who turned and fled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At sight of a mouse, alive or dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She wasn't a maid a man could "shoo"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By shouting, however abruptly, "Boo!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She wasn't a maid who'd run and hide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If her face and figure you idly eyed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She was'nt a maid who'd blush and shake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When asked what part of the fowl she'd take.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(I blush myself to confess she preferred,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And commonly got, the most of the bird.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She wasn't a maid to simper because</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She was asked to sing—if she ever was.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In short, if the truth must be displayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i>In puris</i>—Beauty wasn't a maid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beauty, furry and fine and fat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yawny and clawy, sleek and all that,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was a pampered and spoiled Angora cat!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I loved her well, and I'm proud that she</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wasn't indifferent, quite, to me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In fact I have sometimes gone so far</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(You know, mesdames, how silly men are)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As to think she preferred—excuse the conceit—</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>My</em> legs upon which to sharpen her feet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perhaps it shouldn't have gone for much,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I started and thrilled beneath her touch!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, well, that's ancient history now:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fingers of Time have touched my brow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I hear with never a start to-day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Beauty has passed from the earth away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gone!—her death-song (it killed her) sung.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gone!—her fiddlestrings all unstrung.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gone to the bliss of a new <i xml:lang="fr">régime</i></span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of turkey smothered in seas of cream;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of roasted mice (a superior breed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To science unknown and the coarser need</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the living cat) cooked by the flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the dainty soul of an erring dame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who gave to purity all her care,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Neglecting the duty of daily prayer,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crisp, delicate mice, just touched with spice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the ghost of a breeze from Paradise;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A very digestible sort of mice.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let scoffers sneer, I propose to hold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Beauty has mounted the Stair of Gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To eat and eat, forever and aye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On a velvet rug from a golden tray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the human spirit—that is my creed—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rots in the ground like a barren seed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That is my creed, abhorred by Man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But approved by Cat since time began.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till Death shall kick at me, thundering "Scat!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I shall hold to that, I shall hold to that.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-statesmen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Statesmen</h3>
				<p>
					<span>How blest the land that counts among</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Her sons so many good and wise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To execute great feats of tongue</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">When troubles rise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Behold them mounting every stump</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our liberty by speech to guard.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Observe their courage:—see them jump</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And come down hard!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Walk up, walk up!" each cries aloud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"And learn from me what you must do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To turn aside the thunder cloud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The earthquake too.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Beware the wiles of yonder quack</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who stuffs the ears of all that pass.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I—I alone can show that black</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Is white as grass."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They shout through all the day and break</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The silence of the night as well.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They'd make—I wish they'd <em>go</em> and make—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of Heaven a Hell.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A advocates free silver, B</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Free trade and C free banking laws.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Free board, clothes, lodging would from me</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Win warm applause.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lo, D lifts up his voice: "You see</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The single tax on land would fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On all alike." More evenly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">No tax at all.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"With paper money" bellows E</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"We'll all be rich as lords." No doubt—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And richest of the lot will be</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The chap without.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As many "cures" as addle wits</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who know not what the ailment is!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Meanwhile the patient foams and spits</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Like a gin fizz.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Alas, poor Body Politic,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your fate is all too clearly read:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be not altogether quick,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Nor very dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You take your exercise in squirms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your rest in fainting fits between.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis plain that your disorder's worms—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Worms fat and lean.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Worm Capital, Worm Labor dwell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Within your maw and muscle's scope.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their quarrels make your life a Hell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Your death a hope.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>God send you find not such an end</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To ills however sharp and huge!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God send you convalesce! God send</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">You vermifuge.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-brothers" epub:type="z3998:poem z3998:drama z3998:scene">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Brothers</h3>
				<p>Scene: A lawyer's dreadful den.</p>
				<p epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter stall-fed citizen.</p>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lawyer</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Mornin'. How-de-do?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Citizen</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Sir, same to you.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Called as counsel to retain you</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In a case that I'll explain you.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Sad, <em>so</em> sad! Heart almost broke.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Hang it! where's my kerchief? Smoke?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Brother, sir, and I, of late,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Came into a large estate.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Brother's—h'm, ha,—rather queer</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Sometimes <i>[tapping forehead]</i> here.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>What he needs—you know—a "writ"—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Something, eh? that will permit</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Me to manage, sir, in fine,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>His estate, as well as mine.</span>
									<br/>
									<span class="i1">Of course he'll storm; 'twill break, I fear,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>His loving heart—excuse this tear.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lawyer</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Have you nothing more?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>All of this you said before—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When last night I took your case.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Citizen</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Why, sir, your face</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Ne'er before has met my view!</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lawyer</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>Eh? The devil! True:</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My mistake—it was your brother.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But you're very like each other.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</article>
			<article id="the-cynics-bequest" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Cynic's Bequest</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In that fair city, Ispahan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There dwelt a problematic man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose angel never was released,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who never once let out his beast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But kept, through all the seasons' round,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Silence unbroken and profound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No Prophecy, with ear applied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To key-hole of the future, tried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Successfully to catch a hint</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of what he'd do nor when begin 't;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As sternly did his past defy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mild Retrospection's backward eye.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though all admired his silent ways,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The women loudest were in praise:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For ladies love those men the most</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who never, never, never boast—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who ne'er disclose their aims and ends</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To naughty, naughty, naughty friends.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet, sooth to say, the fame outran</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The merit of this doubtful man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For taciturnity in him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though not a mere caprice or whim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was not a virtue, such as truth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>High birth, or beauty, wealth or youth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twas known, indeed, throughout the span</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Ispahan, of Gulistan—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These utmost limits of the earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knew that the man was dumb from birth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Unto the Sun with deep salaams</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Parsee spreads his morning palms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(A beacon blazing on a height</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Warms o'er his piety by night.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Moslem deprecates the deed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cuts off the head that holds the creed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then reverently goes to grass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Muttering thanks to Balaam's Ass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For faith and learning to refute</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Idolatry so dissolute!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But should a maniac dash past,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With straws in beard and hands upcast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To him (through whom, whene'er inclined</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To preach a bit to Madmankind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Holy Prophet speaks his mind)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our True Believer lifts his eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Devoutly and his prayer applies;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But next to Solyman the Great</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reveres the idiot's sacred state.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Small wonder then, our worthy mute</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was held in popular repute.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had he been blind as well as mum,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Been lame as well as blind and dumb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No bard that ever sang or soared</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could say how he had been adored.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More meagerly endowed, he drew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An homage less prodigious. True,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No soul his praises but did utter—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All plied him with devotion's butter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But none had out—'t was to their credit—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The proselyting sword to spread it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I state these truths, exactly why</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The reader knows as well as I;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They've nothing in the world to do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With what I hope we're coming to</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If Pegasus be good enough</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To move when he has stood enough.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Egad! his ribs I would examine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had I a sharper spur than famine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or even with that if 'twould incline</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To examine his instead of mine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where was I? Ah, that silent man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who dwelt one time in Ispahan—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He had a name—was known to all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As Meerza Solyman Zingall.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There lived afar in Astrabad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man the world agreed was mad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So wickedly he broke his joke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the heads of duller folk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So miserly, from day to day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He gathered up and hid away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In vaults obscure and cellars haunted</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What many worthy people wanted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A stingy man!—the tradesmen's palms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were spread in vain: "I give no alms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without inquiry"—so he'd say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And beat the needy duns away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bastinado did, 'tis true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Persuade him, now and then, a few</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Odd tens of thousands to disburse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To glut the taxman's hungry purse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But still, so rich he grew, his fear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was constant that the Shah might hear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(The Shah had heard it long ago,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And asked the taxman if 'twere so,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who promptly answered, rather airish,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The man had long been on the parish.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The more he feared, the more he grew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A cynic and a miser, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until his bitterness and pelf</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made him a terror to himself;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, with a razor's neckwise stroke,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He tartly cut his final joke.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So perished, not an hour too soon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wicked Muley Ben Maroon.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From Astrabad to Ispahan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At camel speed the rumor ran</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That, breaking through tradition hoar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And throwing all his kinsmen o'er,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The miser'd left his mighty store</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of gold—his palaces and lands—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To needy and deserving hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Except a penny here and there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To pay the dervishes for prayer.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twas known indeed throughout the span</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of earth, and into Hindostan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That our beloved mute was the</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Residuary legatee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The people said 'twas very well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And each man had a tale to tell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of how he'd had a finger in 't</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By dropping many a friendly hint</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At Astrabad, you see. But ah,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They feared the news might reach the Shah!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To prove the will the lawyers bore 't</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before the Kadi's awful court,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who nodded, when he heard it read,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Confirmingly his drowsy head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor thought, his sleepiness so great,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Himself to gobble the estate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I give," the dead had writ, "my all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Meerza Solyman Zingall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Ispahan. With this estate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I might quite easily create</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ten thousand ingrates, but I shun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Temptation and create but one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In whom the whole unthankful crew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rich man's air that ever drew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fat their pauper lungs I fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vicarious with vain desire!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From foul Ingratitude's base rout</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I pick this hapless devil out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bestowing on him all my lands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My treasures, camels, slaves and bands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of wives—I give him all this loot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And throw my blessing in to boot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behold, O man, in this bequest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Philanthropy's long wrongs redressed:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To speak me ill that man I dower</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With fiercest will who lacks the power.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Allah il Allah! now let him bloat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With rancor till his heart's afloat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unable to discharge the wave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon his benefactor's grave!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Forth in their wrath the people came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And swore it was a sin and shame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To trick their blessed mute; and each</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Protested, serious of speech,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That though <i>he'd</i> long foreseen the worst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He'd been against it from the first.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By various means they vainly tried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The testament to set aside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each ready with his empty purse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To take upon himself the curse;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For <i>they</i> had powers of invective</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enough to make it ineffective.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ingrates mustered, every man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And marched in force to Ispahan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Which had not quite accommodation)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And held a camp of indignation.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The man, this while, who never spoke—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On whom had fallen this thunder-stroke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of fortune, gave no feeling vent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor dropped a clue to his intent.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whereas no power to him came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His benefactor to defame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some (such a length had slander gone to)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even whispered that he didn't want to!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But none his secret could divine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If suffering he made no sign,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until one night as winter neared</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From all his haunts he disappeared—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Evanished in a doubtful blank</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like little crayfish in a bank,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their heads retracting for a spell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pulling in their holes as well.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All through the land of Gul, the stout</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Young Spring is kicking Winter out.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The grass sneaks in upon the scene,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Defacing it with bottle-green.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stumbling lamb arrives to ply</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His restless tail in every eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eats nasty mint to spoil his meat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And make himself unfit to eat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Madly his throat the bulbul tears—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In every grove blasphemes and swears</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the immodest rose displays</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her shameless charms a dozen ways.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo! now, throughout the utmost span</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Ispahan—of Gulistan—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A big new book's displayed in all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shops and cumbers every stall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The price is low—the dealers say 'tis—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the rich are treated to it gratis.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Engraven on its foremost page</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These title-words the eye engage:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"The Life of Muley Ben Maroon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Astrabad—Rogue, Thief, Buffoon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Miser—Liver by the Sweat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Better Men: A Lamponette</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Composed in Rhyme and Written all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By Meerza Solyman Zingall!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="corrected-news" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Corrected News</h3>
				<p>
					<span>'Twas a maiden lady (the newspapers say)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pious and prim and a bit gone-gray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She slept like an angel, holy and white,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Till ten o' the clock in the shank o' the night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(When men and other wild animals prey)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then she cried in the viewless gloom:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"There's a man in the room, a man in the room!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And this maiden lady (they make it appear)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leapt out of the window, five fathom sheer!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Alas, that lying is such a sin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When newspaper men need bread and gin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And none can be had for less than a lie!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the maiden lady a bit gone-gray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saw the man in the room from across the way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And leapt, not out of the window but in—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ten fathoms sheer, as I hope to die!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-explanation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Explanation</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"I never yet exactly could determine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just how it is that the judicial ermine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is kept so safely from predacious vermin."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"It is not so, my friend: though in a garret</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'T is kept in camphor, and you often air it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The vermin will get into it and wear it."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="justice" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Justice</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Jack Doe met Dick Roe, whose wife he loved,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And said: "I will get the best of him."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So pulling a knife from his boot, he shoved</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It up to the hilt in the breast of him.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then he moved that weapon forth and back,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Enlarging the hole he had made with it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till the smoking liver fell out, and Jack</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Merrily, merrily played with it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then he reached within and he seized the slack</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the lesser bowel, and, traveling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hither and thither, looked idly back</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On that small intestine, raveling.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The wretched Richard, with many a grin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Laid on with exceeding suavity,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Curled up and died, and they ran John in</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And charged him with sins of gravity.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The case was tried and a verdict found:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The jury, with great humanity,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Acquitted the prisoner on the ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of extemporary insanity.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mr-finks-debating-donkey" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Mr. Fink's Debating Donkey</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Of a person known as Peters I will humbly crave your leave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An unusual adventure into narrative to weave—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mr. William Perry Peters, of the town of Muscatel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A public educator and an orator as well.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mr. Peters had a weakness which, 'tis painful to relate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was a strong predisposition to the pleasures of debate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He would foster disputation wheresoever he might be;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In polygonal contention none so happy was as he.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twas observable, however, that the exercises ran</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into monologue by Peters, that rhetorical young man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the Muscatelian rustics who assisted at the show,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By involuntary silence testified their overthrow—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mr. Peters, all unheedful of their silence and their grief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still effacing every vestige of erroneous belief.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, he was a sore affliction to all heretics so bold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As to entertain opinions that he didn't care to hold.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One day—'t was in pursuance of a pedagogic plan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the mental elevation of Uncultivated Man—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mr. Peters, to his pupils, in dismissing them, explained</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the Friday evening following (unless, indeed, it rained)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would be signalized by holding in the schoolhouse a debate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Free to all who their opinions might desire to ventilate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the question, "Which is better, as a serviceable gift,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Speech or hearing, from barbarity the human mind to lift?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pupils told their fathers, who, forehanded always, met</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the barroom to discuss it every evening, dry or wet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They argued it and argued it and spat upon the stove,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the non-committal "barkeep" on their differences throve.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I state it as a maxim in a loosish kind of way:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You'll have the more to back your word the less you have to say.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Public interest was lively, but one Ebenezer Fink</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the Rancho del Jackrabbit, only seemed to sit and think.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>On the memorable evening all the men of Muscatel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came to listen to the logic and the eloquence as well—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All but William Perry Peters, whose attendance there, I fear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was to wreak his ready rhetoric upon the public ear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And prove (whichever side he took) that hearing wouldn't lift</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The human mind as ably as the other, greater gift.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The judges being chosen and the disputants enrolled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The question he proceeded <i>in extenso</i> to unfold:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"<i>Resolved</i>—The sense of hearing lifts the mind up out of reach</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the fogs of error better than the faculty of speech."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This simple proposition he expounded, word by word,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until they best understood it who least perfectly had heard.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even the judges comprehended as he ventured to explain—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The impact of a spit-ball admonishing in vain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beginning at a period before Creation's morn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He had reached the bounds of tolerance and Adam yet unborn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As down the early centuries of pre-historic time</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He tracked important principles and quoted striking rhyme,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Whisky Bill, prosaic soul! proclaiming him a jay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had risen and like an earthquake, "reeled unheededly away,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a late lamented cat, when opportunity should serve,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was preparing to embark upon her parabolic curve,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A noise arose outside—the door was opened with a bang</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And old Ebenezer Fink was heard ejaculating "G'lang!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Straight into that assembly gravely marched without a wink</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An ancient ass—the property it was of Mr. Fink.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its ears depressed and beating time to its infestive tread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Silent through silence moved amain that stately quadruped!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It stopped before the orator, and in the lamplight thrown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon its tail they saw that member weighted with a stone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then spake old Ebenezer: "Gents, I heern o' this debate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On w'ether v'ice or y'ears is best the mind to elevate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now 'yer's a bird ken throw some light uponto that tough theme:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He has 'em both, I'm free to say, oncommonly extreme.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He wa'n't invited for to speak, but he will not refuse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(If t'other gentleman ken wait) to exposay his views."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ere merriment or anger o'er amazement could prevail;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He cut the string that held the stone on that canary's tail.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Freed from the weight, that member made a gesture of delight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then rose until its rigid length was horizontal quite.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With lifted head and level ears along his withers laid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jack sighed, refilled his lungs and then—to put it mildly—brayed!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He brayed until the stones were stirred in circumjacent hills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sleeping women rose and fled, in divers kinds of frills.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'T is said that awful bugle-blast—to make the story brief—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wafted William Perry Peters through the window, like a leaf!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Such is the tale. If anything additional occurred</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis not set down, though, truly, I remember to have heard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That a gentleman named Peters, now residing at Soquel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A considerable distance from the town of Muscatel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is opposed to education, and to rhetoric, as well.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-my-laundress" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To My Laundress</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Saponacea, wert thou not so fair</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I'd curse thee for thy multitude of sins—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For sending home my clothes all full of pins—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A shirt occasionally that's a snare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a delusion, got, the Lord knows where,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Lord knows why—a sock whose outs and ins</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">None know, nor where it ends nor where begins,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fewer cuffs than ought to be my share.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But when I mark thy lilies how they grow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the red roses of thy ripening charms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I bless the lovelight in thy dark eyes dreaming.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'll never pay thee, but I'd gladly go</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Into the magic circle of thine arms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Supple and fragrant from repeated steaming.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="fame" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Fame</h3>
				<p>
					<span>One thousand years I slept beneath the sod,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My sleep in 1901 beginning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, by the action of some scurvy god</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who happened then to recollect my sinning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I was revived and given another inning.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On breaking from my grave I saw a crowd—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A formless multitude of men and women,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gathered about a ruin. Clamors loud</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I heard, and curses deep enough to swim in;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And, pointing at me, one said: "Let's put <i>him</i> in."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then each turned on me with an evil look,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As in my ragged shroud I stood and shook.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Nay, good Posterity," I cried, "forbear!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If that's a jail I fain would be remaining</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Outside, for truly I should little care</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To catch my death of cold. I'm just regaining</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The life lost long ago by my disdaining</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To take precautions against draughts like those</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That, haply, penetrate that cracked and splitting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old structure." Then an aged wight arose</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From a chair of state in which he had been sitting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And with preliminary coughing, spitting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wheezing, said: "'T is not a jail, we're sure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whate'er it may have been when it was newer.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"'T was found two centuries ago, o'ergrown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With brush and ivy, all undoored, ungated;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in restoring it we found a stone</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Set here and there in the dilapidated</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And crumbling frieze, inscribed, in antiquated</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Big characters, with certain uncouth names,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which we conclude were borne of old by awful</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rapscallions guilty of all sinful games—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Vagrants engaged in purposes unlawful,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And orators less sensible than jawful.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So each ten years we add to the long row</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A name, the most unworthy that we know."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"But why," I asked, "put <i>me</i> in?" He replied:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"You look it"—and the judgment pained me greatly;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Right gladly would I then and there have died,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But that I'd risen from the grave so lately.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But on examining that solemn, stately</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old ruin I remarked: "My friend, you err—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The truth of this is just what I expected.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This building in its time made quite a stir.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I lived (was famous, too) when 't was erected.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The names here first inscribed were much respected.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This is the Hall of Fame, or I'm a stork,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And this goat pasture once was called New York."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="omnes-vanitas" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Omnes Vanitas</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Alas for ambition's possessor!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Alas for the famous and proud!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Isle of Manhattan's best dresser</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is wearing a hand-me-down shroud.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The world has forgotten his glory;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The wagoner sings on his wain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Chauncey Depew tells a story,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And jackasses laugh in the lane.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-new-ulalume" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The New "Ulalume"</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The skies they were ashen and sober,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The leaves they were crisped and sere,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">”        ”        ”       ”  withering ”     ”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was night in the lonesome October</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of my most immemorial year;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was hard by the dim lake of Auber,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>”   ”   down ”   ”   dark tarn  ”     ”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the    misty    mid    region   of Weir,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">”    ” ghoul-haunted woodland  ”    ”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="consolation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Consolation</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Little's the good to sit and grieve</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because the serpent tempted Eve.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Better to wipe your eyes and take</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A club and go out and kill a snake.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What do you gain by cursing Nick</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For playing her such a scurvy trick?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Better go out and some villain find</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who serves the devil, and beat him blind.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But if you prefer, as I suspect,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To philosophize, why, then, reflect:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If the cunning rascal upon the limb</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hadn't tempted her she'd have tempted him.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="fate" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Fate</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Alas, alas, for the tourist's guide!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He turned from the beaten trail aside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wandered bewildered, lay down and died.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O grim is the Irony of Fate:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It switches the man of low estate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And loosens the dogs upon the great.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It lights the fireman to roast the cook;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fisherman squirms upon the hook,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the flirt is slain with a tender look.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The undertaker it overtakes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It saddles the cavalier, and makes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The haughtiest butcher into steaks.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Assist me, gods, to balk the decree!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nothing I'll do and nothing I'll be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In order that nothing be done to me.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="philosopher-bimm" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Philosopher Bimm</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Republicans think Jonas Bimm</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A Democrat gone mad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Democrats consider him</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Republican and bad.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Tough reviles him as a Dude</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And gives it him right hot;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Dude condemns his crassitude</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And calls him <i>sans culottes.</i></span>
					<br/>
					<span>Derided as an Anglophile</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By Anglophobes, forsooth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As Anglophobe he feels, the while,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Anglophilic tooth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Churchman calls him Atheist;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Atheists, rough-shod,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have ridden o'er him long and hissed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"The wretch believes in God!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Saints whom clergymen we call</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Would kill him if they could;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Sinners (scientists and all)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Complain that he is good.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All men deplore the difference</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Between themselves and him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all devise expedients</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For paining Jonas Bimm.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I too, with wild demoniac glee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Would put out both his eyes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Mr. Bimm appears to me</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Insufferably wise!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="reminded" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Reminded</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Beneath my window twilight made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Familiar mysteries of shade.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faint voices from the darkening down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were calling vaguely to the town.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Intent upon a low, far gleam</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That burned upon the world's extreme,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I sat, with short reprieve from grief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And turned the volume, leaf by leaf,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherein a hand, long dead, had wrought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A million miracles of thought.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My fingers carelessly unclung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lettered pages, and among</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Them wandered witless, nor divined</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wealth in which, poor fools, they mined.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soul that should have led their quest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was dreaming in the level west,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where a tall tower, stark and still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Uplifted on a distant hill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stood lone and passionless to claim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its guardian star's returning flame.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I know not how my dream was broke,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But suddenly my spirit woke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Filled with a foolish fear to look</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the hand that clove the book,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Significantly pointing; next</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I bent attentive to the text,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And read—and as I read grew old—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mindless words: "Poor Tom's a-cold!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah me! to what a subtle touch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The brimming cup resigns its clutch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the wine. Dear God, is 't writ</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That hearts their overburden bear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of bitterness though thou permit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pranks of Chance, alurk in nooks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And striking coward blows from books,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dead hands reaching everywhere?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="salvini-in-america" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Salvini in America</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Come, gentlemen—your gold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thanks: welcome to the show.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hear a story told</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In words you do not know.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now, great Salvini, rise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And thunder through your tears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Aha! friends, let your eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Interpret to your ears.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Gods! 't is a goodly game.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Observe his stride—how grand!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When legs like his declaim</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who can misunderstand?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>See how that arm goes round.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It says, as plain as day:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I love," "The lost is found,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"Well met, sir," or, "Away!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And mark the drawing down</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of brows. How accurate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The language of that frown:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pain, gentlemen—or hate.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Those of the critic trade</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Swear it is all as clear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if his tongue were made</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To fit an English ear.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hear that Italian phrase!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Greek to your sense, 't is true;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But shrug, expression, gaze—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Well, they are Grecian too.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But it is Art! God wot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Its tongue to all is known.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faith! he to whom 't were not</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Would better hold his own.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Shakespeare says act and word</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Must match together true.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From what you've seen and heard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How can you doubt they do?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Enchanting drama! Mark</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The crowd "from pit to dome",</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One box alone is dark—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The prompter stays at home.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Stupendous artist! You</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are lord of joy and woe:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We thrill if you say "Boo,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And thrill if you say "Bo."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="another-way" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Another Way</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I lay in silence, dead. A woman came</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And laid a rose upon my breast and said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"May God be merciful." She spoke my name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And added: "It is strange to think him dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"He loved me well enough, but 't was his way</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To speak it lightly." Then, beneath her breath:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Besides"—I knew what further she would say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But then a footfall broke my dream of death.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To-day the words are mine. I lay the rose</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Upon her breast, and speak her name and deem</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It strange indeed that she is dead. God knows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I had more pleasure in the other dream.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="art" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Art</h3>
				<p>
					<span>For Gladstone's portrait five thousand pounds</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Were paid, 't is said, to Sir John Millais.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I cannot help thinking that such fine pay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Transcended reason's uttermost bounds.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For it seems to me uncommonly queer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That a painted British stateman's price</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Exceeds the established value thrice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a living statesman over here.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-one-across-the-way" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To One Across the Way</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When at your window radiant you've stood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I've sometimes thought—forgive me if I've erred—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That some slight thought of me perhaps has stirred</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your heart to beat less gently than it should.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know you beautiful; that you are good</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I hope—or fear—I cannot choose the word,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor rightly suit it to the thought. I've heard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reason at love's dictation never could.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blindly to this dilemma so I grope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As one whose every pathway has a snare:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">If you are minded in the saintly fashion</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of your pure face my passion's without hope;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If not, alas! I equally despair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">For what to me were hope without the passion?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-debtor-abroad" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To a Debtor Abroad</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Grief for an absent lover, husband, friend,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is barely felt before it comes to end:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A score of early consolations serve</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To modify its mouth's dejected curve.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But woes of creditors when debtors flee</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forever swell the separating sea.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When standing on an alien shore you mark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The steady course of some intrepid bark,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How sweet to think a tear for you abides,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not all unuseful, in the wave she rides!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That sighs for you commingle in the gale</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneficently bellying her sail!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="genesis" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Genesis</h3>
				<p>
					<span>God said: "Let there be Man," and from the clay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Adam came forth and, thoughtful, walked away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The matrix whence his body was obtained,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An empty, man-shaped cavity, remained</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All unregarded from that early time</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till in a recent storm it filled with slime.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now Satan, envying the Master's power</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make the meat himself could but devour,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strolled to the place and, standing by the pool,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exerted all his will to make a fool.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A miracle!—from out that ancient hole</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rose Morehouse, lacking nothing but a soul.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"To give him that I've not the power divine,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said Satan, sadly, "but I'll lend him mine."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He breathed it into him, a vapor black,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to this day has never got it back.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="liberty" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Liberty</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"'Let there be Liberty!' God said, and, lo!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The red skies all were luminous. The glow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Struck first Columbia's kindling mountain peaks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One hundred and eleven years ago!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So sang a patriot whom once I saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Descending Bunker's holy hill. With awe</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I noted that he shone with sacred light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like Moses with the tables of the Law.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One hundred and eleven years? O small</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And paltry period compared with all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The tide of centuries that flowed and ebbed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To etch Yosemite's divided wall!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, Liberty, they sing you always young</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose harps are in your adoration strung</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(Each swears you are his countrywoman, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And speak no language but his mother tongue).</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And truly, lass, although with shout and horn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Man has all-hailed you from creation's morn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I cannot think you old—I think, indeed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You are by twenty centuries unborn.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-passing-of-shepherd" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Passing of Shepherd</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The sullen church-bell's intermittent moan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dirge's melancholy monotone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The measured march, the drooping flags, attest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A great man's progress to his place of rest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Along broad avenues himself decreed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To serve his fellow men's disputed need—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Past parks he raped away from robbers' thrift</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gave to poverty, wherein to lift</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its voice to curse the giver and the gift—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Past noble structures that he reared for men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To meet in and revile him, tongue and pen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Draws the long retinue of death to show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fit credentials of a proper woe.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Boss" Shepherd, you are dead. Your hand no more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Throws largess to the mobs that ramp and roar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For blood of benefactors who disdain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their purity of purpose to explain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their righteous motive and their scorn of gain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your period of dream—'twas but a breath—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is closed in the indifference of death.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sealed in your silences, to you alike</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If hands are lifted to applaud or strike.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No more to your dull, inattentive ear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Praise of to-day than curse of yesteryear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the same lips the honied phrases fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That still are bitter from cascades of gall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We note the shame; you in your depth of dark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The red-writ testimony cannot mark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On every honest cheek; your senses all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Locked, <i>incommunicado</i>, in your pall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Know not who sit and blush, who stand and bawl.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Seven Grecian cities claim great Homer dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through which the living Homer begged his bread."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So sang, as if the thought had been his own,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An unknown bard, improving on a known.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Neglected genius!"—that is sad indeed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But malice better would ignore than heed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Shepherd's soul, we rightly may suspect,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prayed often for the mercy of neglect</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When hardly did he dare to leave his door</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without a guard behind him and before</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To save him from the gentlemen that now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In cheap and easy reparation bow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their corrigible heads above his corse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To counterfeit a grief that's half remorse.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The pageant passes and the exile sleeps,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And well his tongue the solemn secret keeps</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the great peace he found afar, until,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death's writ of extradition to fulfill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They brought him, helpless, from that friendly zone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be a show and pastime in his own—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A final opportunity to those</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who fling with equal aim the stone and rose;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That at the living till his soul is freed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This at the body to conceal the deed!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lone on his hill he's lying to await</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What added honors may befit his state—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The monument, the statue, or the arch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Where knaves may come to weep and dupes to march)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Builded by clowns to brutalize the scenes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His genius beautified. To get the means,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His newly good traducers all are dunned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For contributions to the conscience fund.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If each subscribe (and pay) one cent 'twill rear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A structure taller than their tallest ear.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Washington, May 4, 1903.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-maude" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To Maude</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Not as two errant spheres together grind</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With monstrous ruin in the vast of space,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Destruction born of that malign embrace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their hapless peoples all to death consigned—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not so when our intangible worlds of mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Even mine and yours, each with its spirit race</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of beings shadowy in form and face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall drift together on some blessed wind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No, in that marriage of gloom and light</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All miracles of beauty shall be wrought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Attesting a diviner faith than man's;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For all my sad-eyed daughters of the night</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shall smile on your sweet seraphim of thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Nor any jealous god forbid the banns.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-birth-of-virtue" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Birth of Virtue</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When, long ago, the young world circling flew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through wider reaches of a richer blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>New-eyed, the men and maids saw, manifest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The thoughts untold in one another's breast—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each wish displayed, and every passion learned;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A look revealed them as a look discerned.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But sating Time with clouds o'ercast their eyes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Desire was hidden, and the lips framed lies.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A goddess then, emerging from the dust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fair Virtue rose, the daughter of Distrust.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="stoneman-in-heaven" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Stoneman in Heaven</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Seraphs came to Christ, and said: "Behold!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The man, presumptuous and overbold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who boasted that his mercy could excel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thine own, is dead and on his way to Hell."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Gravely the Saviour asked: "What did he do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make his impious assertion true?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"He was a Governor, releasing all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The vilest felons ever held in thrall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No other mortal, since the dawn of time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has ever pardoned such a mass of crime!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Christ smiled benignly on the Seraphim:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Yet I am victor, for I pardon <em>him</em>."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-scurril-press" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Scurril Press</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom Jonesmith</b> <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">loquitur</i>: I've slept right through</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The night—a rather clever thing to do.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How soundly women sleep <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">looks at his wife</i>.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They're all alike. The sweetest thing in life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is woman when she lies with folded tongue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its toil completed and its day-song sung.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Thump!</i> That's the morning paper. What a bore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That it should be delivered at the door.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There ought to be some expeditious way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To get it <em>to</em> one. By this long delay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fizz gets off the news <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">a rap is heard</i>.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That's Jane, the housemaid; she's an early bird;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She's brought it to the bedroom door, good soul.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Gets up and takes it in.</i> Upon the whole</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The system's not so bad a one. What's here?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gad! if they've not got after—listen dear</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To sleeping wife</i>—young Gastrotheos! Well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If Freedom shrieked when Kosciusko fell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She'll shriek again—with laughter—seeing how</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They treated <abbr>Gast.</abbr> with her. Yet I'll allow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis right if he goes dining at The Pup</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With Mrs. Thing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="right"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Wife</b> <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">briskly, waking up</i>:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With her? The hussy! Yes, it serves him right.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jonesmith</b> <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">continuing to "seek the light"</i>:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What's this about old Impycu? That's good!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grip—that's the funny man—says Impy should</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be used as a decoy in shooting tramps.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I knew old Impy when he had the "stamps"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To buy us all out, and he wasn't then</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So bad a chap to have about. Grip's pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is just a tickler!—and the world, no doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is better with it than it was without.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What? thirteen ladies—Jumping Jove! we know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Them nearly all!—who gamble at a low</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And very shocking game of cards called "draw"!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O cracky, how they'll squirm! ha-ha! haw-haw!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let's see what else <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">wife snores</i>. Well, I'll be blest!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A woman doesn't understand a jest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hello! What, what? the scurvy wretch proceeds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To take a fling at <em>me</em>, condemn him! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">reads</i>:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i>Tom Jonesmith</i>—my name's Thomas, vulgar cad!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i>Of the new Shavings Bank</i>—the man's gone mad!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That's libelous; I'll have him up for that—</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i>Has had his corns cut</i>. Devil take the rat!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What business is't of his, I'd like to know?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He didn't have to cut them. Gods! what low</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And scurril things our papers have become!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You skim their contents and you get but scum.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here, Mary, <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">waking wife</i> I've been attacked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In this vile sheet. By Jove, it is a fact!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Wife</b> <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">reading it</i>: How wicked! Who do you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Suppose 'twas wrote it?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="right"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jonesmith</b>: Who? why, who</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But Grip, the so-called funny man—he wrote</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Me up because I'd not discount his note.</span>
					<br/>
					<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">
						<span>Blushes like sunset at the hideous lie—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He'll think of one that's better by and by—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Throws down the paper on the floor, and treads</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A lively measure on it—kicks the shreds</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And patches all about the room, and still</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Performs his jig with unabated will.</span>
					</i>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Wife</b> <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">warbling sweetly, like an Elfland horn</i>:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear, do be careful of that second corn.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="stanley" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Stanley</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Noting some great man's composition vile:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A head of wisdom and a heart of guile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A will to conquer and a soul to dare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Joined to the manners of a dancing bear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fools unaccustomed to the wide survey</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of various Nature's compensating sway,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Untaught to separate the wheat and chaff,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To praise the one and at the other laugh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yearn all in vain and impotently seek</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some flawless hero upon whom to wreak</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sycophantic worship of the weak.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Not so the wise, from superstition free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who find small pleasure in the bended knee;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quick to discriminate 'twixt good and bad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And willing in the king to find the cad—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No reason seen why genius and conceit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The power to dazzle and the will to cheat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The love of daring and the love of gin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should not dwell, peaceful, in a single skin.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To such, great Stanley, you're a hero still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Despite your cradling in a tub for swill.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your peasant manners can't efface the mark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of light you drew across the Land of Dark.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In you the extremes of character are wed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To serve the quick and villify the dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hero and clown! O, man of many sides,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Muse of Truth adores you and derides,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sheds, impartial, the revealing ray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon your head of gold and feet of clay.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="one-of-the-unfair-sex" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">One of the Unfair Sex</h3>
				<p>
					<span>She stood at the ticket-seller's</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Serenely removing her glove,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While hundreds of strugglers and yellers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And some that were good at a shove,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Were clustered behind her like bats in</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">a cave and dissembling their love.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>At night she still stood at that window</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Endeavoring her money to reach;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The crowds in her rear, how they sinned—O,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How dreadfully sinned in their speech!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ten miles either way they extended</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">their lines, the historians teach.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She stands there to-day—legislation</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Has failed to remove her. The trains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No longer pull up at that station;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And over the ghastly remains</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the army that waited and died of old</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">age fall the snows and the rains.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-lords-prayer-on-a-coin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Lord's Prayer on a Coin</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Upon this quarter-eagle's leveled face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Lord's Prayer, legibly inscribed, I trace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Our Father which"—the pronoun there is funny,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shows the scribe to have addressed the money—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Which art in Heaven"—an error this, no doubt:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The preposition should be stricken out.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Needless to quote; I only have designed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To praise the frankness of the pious mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which thought it natural and right to join,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With rare significancy, prayer and coin.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-absurdum" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Absurdum</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Congressman Rixey, you're a statesman—you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Yourself will hardly say that you are not;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet I know not what you hope to do</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For those Confederates whose luckless lot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is to have lived through storms of Yankee shot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To this our day. They draw their breath, indeed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But from the Government no cent of what</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So admirably serves your nobler need.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You work for it? Why, that all cavilers concede.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You'd call these "rebels" to the Soldiers' Homes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On equal terms with persons whom they fought!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whereat the "truly loyal" statesman foams</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At the loud mouth of him. But that is naught—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He foams, not for he must, but for he ought :</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the Poll-patriot's emotions flow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By taking (with much else of value) thought.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His feelings, if he have them, never blow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His cooling coal of anger to a brighter glow.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Well, well, sir, even the Devil may be right</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Through ignorance or accident. 'Tis said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We're sometimes dazzled with too great a light.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In which the blind, with customary tread</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(And by a small, unblinking puppy led)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Walk prosperous courses to appointed goals.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And so your critics, though without a head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Among them—eyeless, therefore, as the moles—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May wiser be than you, who damn their little souls!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If of two aged Southern gentlemen</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of equal need and worth, the one that tried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To cook the country's goose—or say its hen—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Be blest with all the cheer we can provide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And which to t'other sternly is denied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because he didn't, it will seem right queer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The gods are logical and may deride.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Respect the Southern veteran, but fear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The laughter of Olympus sounding loud and clear!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="saith-the-czar" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Saith the Czar</h3>
				<p>
					<span>My people come to me and make their moan:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"We starve, your Majesty—give us a stone."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That's flat rebellion!—how the devil dare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They starve right in my capital? Their prayer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For something in their bellies I will meet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With that which I'll not trouble them to eat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They ask for greater freedom. No, indeed—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What happened to my ancestor who freed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The serfs? His grateful subjects duly flung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Something that spoke to him without a tongue.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So he was sacrificed for Freedom's sake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gathered to his fathers with a rake.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I from Autocracy my people free?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, would to Heaven they could deliver me!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-royal-jester" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Royal Jester</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Once on a time, so ancient poets sing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There reigned in Godknowswhere a certain king.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So great a monarch ne'er before was seen:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was a hero, even to his queen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In whose respect he held so high a place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That none was higher,—nay, not even the ace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was so just his Parliament declared</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those subjects happy whom his laws had spared;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So wise that none of the debating throng</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had ever lived to prove him in the wrong;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So good that Crime his anger never feared,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Beauty boldly plucked him by the beard;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So brave that if his army got a beating</span>
					<br/>
					<span>None dared to face him when he was retreating.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This monarch kept a Fool to make his mirth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And loved him tenderly despite his worth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prompted by what caprice I cannot say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He called the Fool before the throne one day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to that jester seriously said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I'll abdicate, and you shall reign instead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While I, attired in motley, will make sport</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To entertain your Majesty and Court."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'Twas done and the Fool governed. He decreed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The time of harvest and the time of seed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ordered the rains and made the weather clear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And had a famine every second year;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Altered the calendar to suit his freak,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ordaining six whole holidays a week;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Religious creeds and sacred books prepared;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made war when angry and made peace when scared.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>New taxes he inspired; new laws he made;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drowned those who broke them, who observed them, flayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In short, he ruled so well that all who'd not</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Been starved, decapitated, hanged or shot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made the whole country with his praises ring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Declaring he was every inch a king;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the High Priest averred 't was very odd</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If one so competent were not a god.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Meantime, his master, now in motley clad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wore such a visage, woeful, wan and sad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That some condoled with him as with a brother</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who, having lost a wife, had got another.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Others, mistaking his profession, often</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Approached him to be measured for a coffin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For years this highborn jester never broke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The silence—he was pondering a joke.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At last, one day, in cap-and-bells arrayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He strode into the Council and displayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A long, bright smile, that glittered in the gloom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a gilt epithet within a tomb.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Posing his bauble like a leader's staff,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To give the signal when (and why) to laugh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He brought it down with peremptory stroke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And simultaneously cracked his joke!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I can't repeat it, friends. I ne'er could school</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Myself to quote from any other fool:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A jest, if it were worse than mine, would start</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My tears; if better, it would break my heart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, if you please, I'll hold you but to state</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That royal Jester's melancholy fate.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The insulted nation, so the story goes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rose as one man—the very dead arose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Springing indignant from the riven tomb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And babes unborn leapt swearing from the womb!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All to the Council Chamber clamoring went,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By rage distracted and on vengeance bent.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In that vast hall, in due disorder laid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tools of legislation were displayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the wild populace, its wrath to sate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seized them and heaved them at the Jester's pate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mountains of writing paper; pools and seas</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of ink, awaiting, to become decrees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Royal approval—and the same in stacks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lay ready for attachment, backed with wax;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pens to make laws, erasers to amend them;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With mucilage convenient to extend them;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scissors for limiting their application,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And acids to repeal all legislation—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These, flung as missiles till the air was dense,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were most offensive weapons of offense,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And by their aid the Fool was nigh destroyed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They ne'er had been so harmlessly employed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whelmed underneath a load of legal cap,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His mouth egurgitating ink on tap,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His eyelids mucilaginously sealed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His fertile head by scissors made to yield</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Abundant harvestage of ears, his pelt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In every wrinkle and on every welt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quickset with pencil-points from feet to gills</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thickly studded with a pride of quills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The royal Jester in the dreadful strife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was made (in short) an editor for life!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>An idle tale, and yet a moral lurks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In this as plainly as in greater works.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I shall not give it birth: one moral here</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would die of loneliness within a year.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-career-in-letters" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Career in Letters</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When Liberverm resigned the chair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of This or That in college, where</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For two decades he'd gorged his brain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With more than it could well contain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In order to relieve the stress</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He took to writing for the press.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then Pondronummus said, "I'll help</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This mine of talent to devel'p;"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And straightway bought with coin and credit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Thundergust</i> for him to edit.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The great man seized the pen and ink</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wrote so hard he couldn't think;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ideas grew beneath his fist</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And flew like falcons from his wrist.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His pen shot sparks all kinds of ways</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till all the rivers were ablaze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And where the coruscations fell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men uttered words I dare not spell.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Eftsoons with corrugated brow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wet towels bound about his pow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Locked legs and failing appetite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He thought so hard he couldn't write.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His soaring fancies, chickenwise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came home to roost and wouldn't rise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With dimmer light and milder heat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His goose-quill staggered o'er the sheet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then dragged, then stopped; the finish came—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He couldn't even write his name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The <i>Thundergust</i> in three short weeks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had risen, roared, and split its cheeks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said Pondronummus, "How unjust!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The storm I raised has laid my dust!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When, Moneybagger, you have aught</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Invested in a vein of thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be sure you've purchased not, instead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That salted claim, a bookworm's head.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-following-pair" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Following Pair</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O very remarkable mortal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What food is engaging your jaws</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And staining with amber their portal?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"It's 'baccy I chaws."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And why do you sway in your walking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To right and left many degrees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hitch up your trousers when talking?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"I follers the seas."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Great indolent shark in the rollers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is "'baccy," too, one of your faults?—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You, too, display maculate molars.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"I dines upon salts."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Strange diet!—intestinal pain it</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is commonly given to nip.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And how can you ever obtain it?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"I follers the ship."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="political-economy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Political Economy</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"I beg you to note," said a Man to a Goose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As he plucked from her bosom the plumage all loose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"That pillows and cushions of feathers and beds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As warm as maids' hearts and as soft as their heads,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Increase of life's comforts the general sum—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which raises the standard of living." "Come, come,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Goose said, impatiently, "tell me or cease,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How that is of any advantage to geese."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"What, what!" said the man—"you are very obtuse!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Consumption no profit to those who produce?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No good to accrue to Supply from a grand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Progressive expansion, all round, of Demand?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Luxurious habits no benefit bring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To those who purvey the luxurious thing?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Consider, I pray you, my friend, how the growth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of luxury promises—" "Promises," quoth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sufferer, "what?—to what course is it pledged</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To pay me for being so often defledged?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Accustomed"—this notion the plucker expressed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As he ripped out a handful of down from her breast—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"To one kind of luxury, people soon yearn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For others and ever for others in turn;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the man who to-night on your feathers will rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His mutton or bacon or beef to digest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His hunger to-morrow will wish to assuage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By dining on goose with a dressing of sage."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-unpardonable-sin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Unpardonable Sin</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I reckon that ye never knew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That dandy slugger, Tom Carew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He had a touch as light an' free</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As that of any honey-bee;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But where it lit there wasn't much</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To jestify another touch.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, what a Sunday-school it was</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To watch him puttin' up his paws</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An' roominate upon their heft—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Particular his holy left!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tom was my style—that's all I say;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some others may be equal gay.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What's come of him? Dunno, I'm sure—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He's dead—which make his fate obscure.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I only started in to clear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One vital p'int in his career,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which is to say—afore he died</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He soiled his erming mighty snide.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ye see he took to politics</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And learnt them statesmen-fellers' tricks;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pulled wires, wore stovepipe hats, used scent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just like he was the President;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Went to the Legislator; spoke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Right out agin the British yoke—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that was right. He let his hair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grow long to qualify for Mayor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An' once or twice he poked his snoot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Congress like a low galoot!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It had to come—no gent can hope</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To wrastle God agin the rope.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tom went from bad to wuss. Being dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I s'pose it oughtn't to be said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For sech inikities as flow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From politics ain't fit to know;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, if you think it's actin' white</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To tell it—Thomas throwed a fight!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="industrial-discontent" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Industrial Discontent</h3>
				<p>
					<span>As time rolled on the whole world came to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A desolation and a darksome curse;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And some one said: "The changes that you see</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the fair frame of things, from bad to worse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are wrought by strikes. The sun withdrew his glimmer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because the moon assisted with her shimmer.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Then, when poor Luna, straining very hard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Doubled her light to serve a darkling world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He called her 'scab,' and meanly would retard</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Her rising: and at last the villain hurled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A heavy beam which knocked her o'er the Lion</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the nebula of great O'Ryan.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"The planets all had struck some time before,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Demanding what they said were equal rights:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some pointing out that others had far more</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That a fair dividend of satellites.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So all went out—though those the best provided,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If they had dared, would rather have abided.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"The stars struck too—I think it was because</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The comets had more liberty than they,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And were not bound by any hampering laws,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">While <i>they</i> were fixed; and there are those who say</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The comets' tresses nettled poor Altair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An aged orb that hasn't any hair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"The earth's the only one that isn't in</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The movement—I suppose because she's watched</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With horror and disgust how her fair skin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Her pranking parasites have fouled and blotched</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With blood and grease in every labor riot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When seeing any purse or throat to fly at."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="tempora-mutantur" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title" xml:lang="la">Tempora Mutantur</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"The world is dull," I cried in my despair:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Its myths and fables are no longer fair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Roll back thy centuries, O Father Time.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Greece transport me in her golden prime.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Give back the beautiful old Gods again—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sportive Nymphs, the Dryad's jocund train,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Pan piping on his reeds, the Naiades,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Sirens singing by the sleepy seas.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Nay, show me but a Gorgon and I'll dare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To lift mine eyes to her peculiar hair</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"(The fatal horrors of her snaky pate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That stiffen men into a stony state)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"And die—erecting, as my soul goes hence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A statue of myself, without expense."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Straight as I spoke I heard the voice of Fate:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Look up, my lad, the Gorgon sisters wait."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Raising my eyes, I saw Medusa stand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stheno, Euryale, on either hand.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I gazed unpetrified and unappalled—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The girls had aged and were entirely bald!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-false-alarm" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A False Alarm</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When Gertrude Atherton pronounced the ladies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of fair Manhattan hideous as Hades—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In eyes no splendor, and in cheeks no roses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, O ye godlings! rudimentary noses—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To pass a bad half-hour before their glasses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Straight to their dressing-rooms ran dames and lasses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who, still dissenting from her curst appraisal.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grew more pugnacious, but not less pugnasal.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ladies, be calm: there's nothing to distress you—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Sacred Englishman will rise and bless you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No noses—none to speak of—is alarming,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that you can't speak through them—that is charming!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="contentment" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Contentment</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Sleep fell upon my senses and I dreamed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Long years had circled since my life had fled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The world was different, and all things seemed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Remote and strange, like noises to the dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And one great Voice there was; and something said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Posterity is speaking—rightly deemed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Infallible:" and so I gave attention,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hoping Posterity my name would mention.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Illustrious Spirit," said the Voice, "appear!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">While we confirm eternally thy fame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before our dread tribunal answer, here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Why do no statues celebrate thy name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No monuments thy services proclaim?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why did not thy contemporaries rear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To thee some schoolhouse or memorial college?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It looks almighty queer, you must acknowledge."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Up spake I hotly: "That is where you err!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But some one thundered in my ear: "You shan't</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be interrupting these proceedings, sir;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The question was addressed to General Grant."</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some other things were spoken which I can't</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Distinctly now recall, but I infer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By certain flushings of my cheeks and forehead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Posterity's environment is torrid.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then heard I (this was in a dream, remark)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Another Voice, clear, comfortable, strong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As Grant's great shade, replying from the dark,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Said in a tone that rang the earth along,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And thrilled the senses of the Judges' throng:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I'd rather you would question why, in park</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And street, my monuments were not erected</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than why they were." Then, waking, I reflected.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1885">1885</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="constancy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Constancy</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I had a dream. A throng of people sped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hard after something that before them fled—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A ball that leapt and bounded. I pursued,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kicking, like all the rest, at Bryan's head.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, God, it was indeed a ghastly play!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That noble head—its locks in disarray</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Streaming like feathers of a shuttlecock—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Urged with resounding buffets on its way.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ever the foremost in the chase accurst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ran Two who in his life, too, had been first</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Among his followers. "Behold," I cried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those twins of constancy, the Devil and Hearst!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Smitten in spirit with a sudden shame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And from intemperate exertion lame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I sprang, and skyward with a parting kick</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hoisted that mellow bulb, and left the game.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-new-enoch-arden" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The New Enoch Arden</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Enoch Arden was an able</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Seaman; hear of his mishap—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not in wild mendacious fable,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As 'twas told by t'other chap;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For I hold it is a youthful</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Indiscretion to tell lies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the writer that is truthful</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Has the reader that is wise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Enoch Arden, able seaman,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On an isle was cast away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And before he was a freeman</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Time had touched him up with gray.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Long he searched the fair horizon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Seated on a mountain top;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vessel ne'er he set his eyes on</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That would undertake to stop.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Seeing that his sight was growing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dim and dimmer, day by day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enoch said he must be going.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So he rose and went away—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Went away and so continued</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Till he lost his lonely isle:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mr. Arden was so sinewed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He could row for many a mile.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Compass he had not, nor sextant,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To direct him o'er the sea:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere 't was known that he was extant,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At his widow's home was he.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When he saw the hills and hollows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the streets he could but know,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He gave utterance as follows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the sentiments below:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Blast my tarry toplights! (shiver,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Too, my timbers!) but, I say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>W'at a larruk to diskiver,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I have lost me blessid way!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"W'at, alas, would be my bloomin'</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fate if Philip now I see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which I lammed?—or my old 'oman,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which has frequent basted <i>me</i>?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Scenes of childhood swam around him</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At the thought of such a lot:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a swoon his Annie found him</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And conveyed him to her cot.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'T was the very house, the garden,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where their honeymoon was passed:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'T was the place where Mrs. Arden</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Would have mourned him to the last.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, what grief she'd known without him!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Now what tears of joy she shed!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enoch Arden looked about him:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"Shanghaied!"—that was all he said.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="disavowal" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Disavowal</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Two bodies are lying in Phoenix Park,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grim and bloody and stiff and stark,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a Land League man with averted eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crosses himself as he hurries by.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he says to his conscience under his breath:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I have had no hand in this deed of death!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A Fenian, making a circuit wide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And passing them by on the other side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shudders and crosses himself and cries:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Who says that I did it, he lies, he lies!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Gingerly stepping across the gore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pat Satan comes after the two before,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Makes, in a solemnly comical way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sign of the cross and is heard to say:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"O dear, what a terrible sight to see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For babes like them and a saint like me!"</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1882">1882</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="an-average" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Average</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I ne'er could be entirely fond</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of any maiden who's a blonde,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And no brunette that e'er I saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My whole devotion e'er could draw.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet sure no girl was ever made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just half of light and half of shade.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so, this happy mean to get,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I love a blonde and a brunette.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="incurable" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Incurable</h3>
				<p>
					<span>From pride, joy, hate, greed, melancholy—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From any kind of vice, or folly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bias, propensity or passion</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That is in prevalence and fashion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save one, the sufferer or lover</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May, by the grace of God, recover:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alone that spiritual tetter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The zeal to make creation better,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Glows still immedicably warmer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who knows of a reformed reformer?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-pun" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Pun</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Hail, peerless Pun! thou last and best,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Most rare and excellent bequest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of dying idiot to the wit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He died of, rat-like, in a pit!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thyself disguised, in many a way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou let'st thy sudden splendor play,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Adorning all where'er it turns,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the revealing bull's-eye burns,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the dim thief, and plays its trick</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the lock he means to pick.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet sometimes, too, thou dost appear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As boldly as a brigadier</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tricked out with marks and signs, all o'er,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of rank, brigade, division, corps,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To show by every means he can</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An officer is not a man;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or naked, with a lordly swagger,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Proud as a cur without a wagger,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who says: "See simple worth prevail—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All dog, sir—not a bit of tail!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'T is then men give thee loudest welcome,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if thou wert a soul from Hell come.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O obvious Pun! thou hast the grace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of skeleton clock without a case—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With all its boweling displayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all its organs on parade.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Dear Pun, you're common ground of bliss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where <i>Punch</i> and I can meet and kiss;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than thee my wit can stoop no low'r—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No higher his does ever soar.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-nanine" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To Nanine</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Dear, if I never saw your face again;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If all the music of your voice were mute</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As that of a forlorn and broken lute;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If only in my dreams I might attain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The benediction of your touch, how vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Were Faith to justify the old pursuit</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of happiness, or Reason to confute</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pessimist philosophy of pain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet Love not altogether is unwise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For still the wind would murmur in the corn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And still the sun would splendor all the mere;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And I—I could not, dearest, choose but hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your voice upon the breeze and see your eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shine in the glory of the summer morn.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="vice-versa" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Vice Versa</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Down in the state of Maine, the story goes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A woman, to secure a lapsing pension,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Married a soldier—though the good Lord knows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That very common act scarce calls for mention.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What makes it worthy to be writ and read—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The man she married had been nine hours dead!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now, marrying a corpse is not an act</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Familiar to our daily observation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so I crave her pardon if the fact</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Suggests this interesting speculation:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should some mischance restore the man to life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would she be then a widow, or a wife?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let casuists contest the point; I'm not</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Disposed to grapple with so great a matter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twould tie my thinker in a double knot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And drive me staring mad as any hatter—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though I submit that hatters are, in fact,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sane, and all other human beings cracked.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Small thought have I of Destiny or Chance;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Luck seems to me the same thing as Intention;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In metaphysics I could ne'er advance,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And think it of the Devil's own invention.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enough of joy to know though when I wed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I <em>must</em> be married, yet I <em>may</em> be dead.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-blacklist" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Blacklist</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Resolved that we will post," the tradesmen say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"All names of debtors who do never pay."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Whose shall be first?" inquires the ready scribe—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Who are the chiefs of the marauding tribe?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo! high Parnassus, lifting from the plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon his hoary peak, a noble fane!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within that temple all the names are scrolled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of village bards upon a slab of gold;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To that bad eminence, my friend, aspire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And copy thou the Roll of Fame, entire.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet not to total shame those names devote,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But add in mercy this explaining note:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"These cheat because the law makes theft a crime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they obey all laws but laws of rhyme."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="authority" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Authority</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Authority, authority!" they shout</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose minds, not large enough to hold a doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some chance opinion ever entertain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By dogma billeted upon their brain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Ha!" they exclaim with choreatic glee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Here's Dabster if you won't give in to me—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dabster, sir, Dabster, to whom all men look</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With reverence!" The fellow wrote a book.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It matters not that many another wight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has thought more deeply, could more wisely write</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On t' other side—that you yourself possess</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knowledge where Dabster did but faintly guess.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God help you if ambitious to persuade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fools who take opinion ready-made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And "recognize authorities." Be sure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No tittle of their folly they'll abjure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For all that you can say. But write it down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Publish and die and get a great renown—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faith! how they'll snap it up, misread, misquote,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swear that they had a hand in all you wrote,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ride your fame like monkeys on a goat!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-psoriad" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Psoriad</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The King of Scotland, years and years ago,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Convened his courtiers in a gallant row</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thus addressed them:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="right">"Gentle sirs, from you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Abundant counsel I have had, and true:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What laws to make to serve the public weal;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What laws of Nature's making to repeal;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What old religion is the only true one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And what the greater merit of some new one;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What friends of yours my favor have forgot;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which of your enemies against me plot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In harvests ample to augment my treasures,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behold the fruits of your sagacious measures!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The punctual planets, to their periods just,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Attest your wisdom and approve my trust.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo! the reward your shining virtues bring:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The grateful placemen bless their useful king!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But while you quaff the nectar of my favor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I mean somewhat to modify its flavor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By just infusing a peculiar dash</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of tonic bitter in the calabash.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And should you, too abstemious, disdain it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Egad! I'll hold your noses till you drain it!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"You know, you dogs, your master long has felt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A keen distemper in the royal pelt—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A testy, superficial irritation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brought home, I fancy, from some foreign nation.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For this a thousand simples you've prescribed—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unguents external, draughts to be imbibed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You've plundered Scotland of its plants, the seas</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You've ravished, and despoiled the Hebrides,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To brew me remedies which, in probation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were sovereign only in their application.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In vain, and eke in pain, have I applied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your flattering unctions to my soul and hide:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Physic and hope have been my daily food—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I've swallowed treacle by the holy rood!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Your wisdom, which sufficed to guide the year</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tame the seasons in their mad career,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When set to higher purposes has failed me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And added anguish to the ills that ailed me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor that alone, but each ambitious leech</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His rivals' skill has labored to impeach</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By hints equivocal in secret speech.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For years, to conquer our respective broils,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We've plied each other with pacific oils.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In vain: your turbulence is unallayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My flame unquenched; your rioting unstayed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My life so wretched from your strife to save it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That death were welcome did I dare to brave it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With zeal inspired by your intemperate pranks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My subjects muster in contending ranks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those fling their banners to the startled breeze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To champion some royal ointment; these</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The standard of some royal purge display</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And 'neath that ensign wage a wasteful fray!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brave tongues are thundering from sea to sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Torrents of sweat roll reeking o'er the lea!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My people perish in their martial fear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rival bagpipes cleave the royal ear!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Now, caitiffs, tremble, for this very hour</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your injured sovereign shall assert his power!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behold this lotion, carefully compound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of all the poisons you for me have found—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of biting washes such as tan the skin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And drastic drinks to vex the parts within.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What aggravates an ailment will produce—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I mean to rub you with this dreadful juice!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Divided counsels you no more shall hatch—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At last you shall unanimously scratch.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kneel, villains, kneel, and doff your shirts—God bless us!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They'll seem, when you resume them, robes of Nessus!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The sovereign ceased, and, sealing what he spoke,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Arthur's Seat1 confirming thunders broke.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The conscious culprits, to their fate resigned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sank to their knees, all piously inclined.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This act, from high Ben Lomond where she floats,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The thrifty goddess, Caledonia, notes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Glibly as nimble sixpence, down she tilts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Headlong, and ravishes away their kilts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tears off each plaid and all their shirts discloses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Removes each shirt and their broad backs exposes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The king advanced—then cursing fled amain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dashing the phial to the stony plain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Where't straight became a fountain brimming o'er,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whence Father Tweed derives his liquid store)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For lo! already on each back <i>sans</i> stitch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The red sign manual of the Rosy Witch!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>[Footnote 1: A famous height overlooking Edinburgh.]</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="peace" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Peace</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When lion and lamb have together lain down</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Spectators cry out, all in chorus;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"The lamb doesn't shrink nor the lion frown—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A miracle's working before us!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But 't is patent why Hot-head his wrath holds in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Faint-heart her terror and loathing;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the one's but an ass in a lion's skin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The other a wolf in sheep's clothing.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="thanksgiving" epub:type="z3998:drama">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Thanksgiving</h3>
				<section id="thanksgiving-dramatis-personae" epub:type="z3998:dramatis-personae">
					<ul>
						<li>
							<p>The Superintendent of an Almshouse</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>A Pauper</p>
						</li>
					</ul>
				</section>
				<section id="thanksgiving-scene">
					<table>
						<tbody>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Superintendent</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>So <em>you're</em> unthankful—you'll not eat the bird?</span>
										<br/>
										<span>You sit about the place all day and gird.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>I understand you'll not attend the ball</span>
										<br/>
										<span>That's to be given to-night in Pauper Hall.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pauper</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Why, that is true, precisely as you've heard:</span>
										<br/>
										<span>I have no teeth and I will eat no bird.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Superintendent</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Ah! see how good is Providence. Because</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Of teeth He has denuded both your jaws</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The fowl's made tender; you can overcome it</span>
										<br/>
										<span>By suction; or at least—well, you can gum it,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Confirming thus the dictum of the preachers</span>
										<br/>
										<span>That Providence is good to all His creatures—</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Turkeys excepted. Come, ungrateful friend,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>If our Thanksgiving dinner you'll attend</span>
										<br/>
										<span>You shall say grace—ask God to bless at least</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The soft and liquid portions of the feast.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pauper</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>Without those teeth my speech is rather thick—</span>
											<br/>
											<span>He'll hardly understand Gum Arabic.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>No, I'll not dine to-day. As to the ball,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>'Tis known to you that I've no legs at all.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>I had the gout—hereditary; so,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>As it could not be cornered in my toe</span>
											<br/>
											<span>They cut my legs off in the fond belief</span>
											<br/>
											<span>That shortening me would make my anguish brief.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Lacking my legs I could not prosecute</span>
											<br/>
											<span>With any good advantage a pursuit;</span>
											<br/>
											<span>And so, because my father chose to court</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Heaven's favor with his ortolans and Port</span>
											<br/>
											<span>(Thanksgiving every day!) the Lord supplied</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Saws for my legs, an almshouse for my pride</span>
											<br/>
											<span>And, once a year, a bird for my inside.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>No, I'll not dance—my light fantastic toe</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Took to its heels some twenty years ago.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Some small repairs would be required for putting</span>
											<br/>
											<span>My body on a saltatory footing.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sings</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>O the legless man's an unhappy chap—</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">
												<em>Tum-hi, tum-hi, tum-he o'haddy.</em>
											</span>
											<br/>
											<span>The favors o' fortune fall not in his lap—</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i2">
												<em>Tum-hi, tum-heedle-do hum.</em>
											</span>
											<br/>
											<span>The plums of office avoid his plate</span>
											<br/>
											<span>No matter how much he may stump the State—</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">
												<em>Tum-hi, ho-heeee.</em>
											</span>
											<br/>
											<span>The grass grows never beneath his feet,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>But he cannot hope to make both ends meet—</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i4">
												<em>Tum-hi.</em>
											</span>
											<br/>
											<span>With a gleeless eye and a somber heart,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>He plays the rôle of his mortal part:</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Wholly himself he can never be.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>O, a soleless corporation is he!</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i5">
												<em>Tum.</em>
											</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Superintendent</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>The chapel bell is calling, thankless friend,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Balls you may not, but church you <em>shall</em>, attend.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Some recognition cannot be denied</span>
										<br/>
										<span>To the great mercy that has turned aside</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The sword of death from us and let it fall</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Upon the people's necks in Montreal;</span>
										<br/>
										<span>That spared our city, steeple, roof and dome,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And drowned the Texans out of house and home;</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Blessed all our continent with peace, to flood</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The Balkan with a cataclysm of blood.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Compared with blessings of so high degree,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Your private woes look mighty small—to me.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
						</tbody>
					</table>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="laudace" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">L'audace</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Daughter of God! Audacity divine—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of clowns the terror and of brains the sign—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not thou the inspirer of the rushing fool,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not thine of idiots the vocal drool:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy bastard sister of the brow of brass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Presumption, actuates the charging ass.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sky-born Audacity! of thee who sings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should strike with freer hand than mine the strings;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The notes should mount on pinions true and strong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For thou, the subject shouldst sustain the song,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till angels lean from Heaven, a breathless throng!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alas! with reeling heads and wavering tails,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They (notes, not angels) drop and the hymn fails;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The minstrel's tender fingers and his thumbs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are torn to rags upon the lyre he strums.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have done! the lofty thesis makes demand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For stronger voices and a harder hand:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Night-howling apes to make the notes aspire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Poet Riley's fist to slug the rebel wire!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-gods-view-point" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The God's View-Point</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Cheeta Raibama Chunder Sen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wisest and the best of men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Betook him to the place where sat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With folded feet upon a mat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of precious stones beneath a palm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In sweet and everlasting calm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That ancient and immortal gent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The God of Rational Content.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As tranquil and unmoved as Fate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The deity reposed in state,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With palm to palm and sole to sole,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And beaded breast and beetling jowl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And belly spread upon his thighs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And costly diamonds for eyes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As Chunder Sen approached and knelt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To show the reverence he felt;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then beat his head upon the sod</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To prove his fealty to the god;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then by gestures signified</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The other sentiments inside;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The god's right eye (as Chunder Sen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wisest and the best of men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Half-fancied) grew by just a thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More narrow than it truly ought.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet still that prince of devotees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Persistent upon bended knees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And elbows bored into the earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Declared the god's exceeding worth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And begged his favor. Then at last,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within that cavernous and vast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thoracic space was heard a sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like that of water underground—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A gurgling note that found a vent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At mouth of that Immortal Gent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In such a chuckle as no ear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had e'er been privileged to hear!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Cheeta Raibama Chunder Sen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wisest, greatest, best of men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heard with a natural surprise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That mighty midriff improvise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And greater yet the marvel was</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When from between those massive jaws</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fell words to make the views more plain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The god was pleased to entertain:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Cheeta Raibama Chunder Sen,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So ran the rede in speech of men—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Foremost of mortals in assent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To creed of Rational Content,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why come you here to impetrate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A blessing on your scurvy pate?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can you not rationally be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Content without disturbing me?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can you not take a hint—a wink—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of what of all this rot I think?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is laughter lost upon you quite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To check you in your pious rite?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What! know you not we gods protest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That all religion is a jest?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You take me seriously?—you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About me make a great ado</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(When I but wish to be alone)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With attitudes supine and prone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With genuflexions and with prayers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And putting on of solemn airs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To draw my mind from the survey</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Rational Content away!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Learn once for all, if learn you can,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This truth, significant to man:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A pious person is by odds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The one most hateful to the gods."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then stretching forth his great right hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which shadowed all that sunny land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That deity bestowed a touch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which Chunder Sen not overmuch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enjoyed—a touch divine that made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sufferer hear stars! They played</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sang as on Creation's morn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When spheric harmony was born.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Cheeta Raibama Chunder Sen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The most astonished man of men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fell straight asleep, and when he woke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The deity nor moved nor spoke,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But sat beneath that ancient palm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In sweet and everlasting calm.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-aesthetes" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Aesthetes</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The lily cranks, the lily cranks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The loppy, loony lasses!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They multiply in rising ranks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To execute their solemn pranks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They moon along in masses.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blow, sweet lily, in the shade! O,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sunflower decorate the dado!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The maiden ass, the maiden ass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The tall and tailless jenny!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In limp attire as green as grass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She stands, a monumental brass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The one of one too many.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blow, sweet lily, in the shade! O,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sunflower decorate the dado!</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1883">1883</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="with-mine-own-petard" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">With Mine Own Petard</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Time was the local poets sang their songs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath their breath in terror of the thongs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I snapped about their shins. Though mild the stroke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bards, like the conies, are "a feeble folk,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fearing all noises but the one they make</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Themselves—at which all other mortals quake.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now from their cracked and disobedient throats,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like rats from sewers scampering, their notes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pour forth to move, where'er the season serves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If not our legs to dance, at least our nerves;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As once a ram's-horn solo maddened all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sober-minded stones in Jerich's wall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A year's exemption from the critic's curse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mends the bard's courage but impairs his verse.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus poolside frogs, when croaking in the night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are frayed to silence by a meteor's flight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or by the sudden plashing of a stone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From some adjacent cottage garden thrown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But straight renew the song with double din</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whene'er the light goes out or man goes in.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall I with arms unbraced (my casque unlatched,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My falchion pawned, my buckler, too, attached)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Resume the cuishes and the broad cuirass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Accomplishing my body all in brass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And arm in battle royal to oppose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A village poet singing through the nose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or strolling troubadour his lyre who strums</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With clumsy hand whose fingers all are thumbs?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No, let them rhyme; I fought them once before</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stilled their songs—but, Satan! how they swore!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cuffed them upon the mouth whene'er their throats</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They cleared for action with their sweetest notes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Twisted their ears (they'd oft tormented mine)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And damned them roundly all along the line;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clubbed the whole crew from the Parnassian slopes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A wreck of broken heads and broken hopes!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What gained I so? I feathered every curse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Launched at the village bards with lilting verse.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The town approved and christened me (to show its</span>
					<br/>
					<span>High admiration) Chief of Local Poets!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="restored" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Restored</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Dull were the days and sober,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The mountains were brown and bare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the season was sad October</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And a dirge was in the air.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The mated starlings flew over</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the isles of the southern sea.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She wept for her warrior lover—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wept and exclaimed: "Ah, me!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Long years have I mourned my darling</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In his battle-bed at rest;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And it's O, to be a starling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With a mate to share my nest!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The angels pitied her sorrow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Restoring her warrior's life;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he came to her arms on the morrow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To claim her and take her to wife.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>An aged lover—a portly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Bald lover, a trifle too stiff,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With manners that would have been courtly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And would have been graceful, if—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If the angels had only restored him</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Without the additional years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That had passed since the enemy bored him</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To death with their long, sharp spears.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As it was, he bored her, and she rambled</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Away with her father's young groom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the old lover smiled as he ambled</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Contentedly back to the tomb.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="sires-and-sons" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Sires and Sons</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Wild wanton Luxury lays waste the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With difficulty tilled by Thrift's hard hand!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then dies the State!—and, in its carcass found,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The millionaires, all maggot-like, abound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alas! was it for this that Warren died,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Arnold sold himself to t' other side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stark piled at Bennington his British dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Gates at Camden, Lee at Monmouth, fled?—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For this that Perry did the foeman fleece,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Hull surrender to preserve the peace?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Degenerate countrymen, renounce, I pray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The slothful ease, the luxury, the gay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gallant trappings of this idle life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And be more fit for one another's wife.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-challenge" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Challenge</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A bull imprisoned in a stall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Broke boldly the confining wall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And found himself, when out of bounds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within a washerwoman's grounds.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where, hanging on a line to dry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A crimson skirt inflamed his eye.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With bellowings that woke the dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He bent his formidable head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With pointed horns and gnarly forehead;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, planting firm his shoulders horrid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Began, with rage made half insane,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To paw the arid earth amain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flinging the dust upon his flanks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In desolating clouds and banks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The while his eyes' uneasy white</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Betrayed his doubt what foe the bright</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Red tent concealed, perchance, from sight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The garment, which, all undismayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had never paled a single shade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now found a tongue—a dangling sock,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Left carelessly inside the smock:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I must insist, my gracious liege,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That you'll be pleased to raise the siege:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My colors I will never strike.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know your sex—you're all alike.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some small experience I've had—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You're not the first I've driven mad."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="two-shows" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Two Shows</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The showman (blessing in a thousand shapes!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Parades a "School of Educated Apes!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Small education's needed, I opine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or native wit, to make a monkey shine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The brute exhibited has naught to do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But ape the larger apes who come to view—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hoodlum with his horrible grimace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Long upper lip and furtive, shuffling pace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Significant reminders of the time</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When hunters, not policemen, made him climb;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lady loafer with her draggling "trail,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That free translation of an ancient tail;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sand-lot quadrumane in hairy suit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose heels are thumbs perverted by the boot;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The painted actress throwing down the gage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To elder artists of the sylvan stage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Proving that in the time of Noah's flood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two ape-skins held her whole profession's blood;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The critic waiting, like a hungry pup,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To write the school—perhaps to eat it—up,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As chance or luck occasion may reveal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To earn a dollar or maraud a meal.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To view the school of apes these creatures go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unconscious that themselves are half the show.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These, if the simian his course but trim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To copy them as they have copied him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will call him "educated." Of a verity</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There's much to learn by study of posterity.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-poets-hope" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Poet's Hope</h3>
				<p>
					<span>'Twas a weary-looking mortal, and he wandered near the portal</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the melancholy City of the Discontented Dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was pale and worn exceeding and his manner was unheeding,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As if it could not matter what he did nor what he said.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Sacred stranger"—I addressed him with a reverence befitting</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The austere, unintermitting, dread solemnity he wore;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis the custom, too, prevailing in that vicinage when hailing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">One who possibly may be a person lately "gone before"—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Sacred stranger, much I ponder on your evident dejection,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But my carefulest reflection leaves the riddle still unread.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How do you yourself explain your dismal tendency to wander</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By the melancholy City of the Discontented Dead?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then that solemn person, pausing in the march that he was making,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Roused himself as if awaking, fixed his dull and stony eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On my countenance and, slowly, like a priest devout and holy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Chanted in a mournful monotone the following reply:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"O my brother, do not fear it; I'm no disembodied spirit—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I am Lampton, the Slang Poet, with a price upon my head.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am watching by this portal for some late lamented mortal</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To arise in his disquietude and leave his earthy bed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Then I hope to take possession and pull in the earth above me</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And, renouncing my profession, ne'er be heard of any more.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For there's not a soul to love me and no living thing respects me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which so painfully affects me that I fain would 'go before.'"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then I felt a deep compassion for the gentleman's dejection,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For privation of affection would refrigerate a frog.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I said: "If nothing human, and if neither man nor woman</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Can appreciate the fashion of your merit—buy a dog."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-woman-and-the-devil" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Woman and the Devil</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When Man and Woman had been made,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All but the disposition,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Devil to the workshop strayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And somehow gained admission.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Master rested from his work,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For this was on a Sunday,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The man was snoring like a Turk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Content to wait till Monday.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Too bad!" the Woman cried; "Oh, why,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Does slumber not benumb me?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A disposition! Oh, I die</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To know if 'twill become me!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Adversary said: "No doubt</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">'Twill be extremely fine, ma'am,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though sure 'tis long to be without—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I beg to lend you mine, ma'am."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Devil's disposition when</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She'd got, of course she wore it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For she'd no disposition then,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor now has, to restore it.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="two-rogues" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Two Rogues</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Dim, grim, and silent as a ghost,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sentry occupied his post,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To all the stirrings of the night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alert of ear and sharp of sight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A sudden something—sight or sound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About, above, or underground,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He knew not what, nor where—ensued,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thrilling the sleeping solitude.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soldier cried: "Halt! Who goes there?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The answer came: "Death—in the air."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Advance, Death—give the countersign,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or perish if you cross that line!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To change his tone Death thought it wise—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reminded him they 'd been allies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against the Russ, the Frank, the Turk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In many a bloody bit of work.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"In short," said he, "in every weather</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We've soldiered, you and I, together."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sentry would not let him pass.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Go back," he growled, "you tiresome ass—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go back and rest till the next war,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor kill by methods all abhor:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Miasma, famine, filth and vice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With plagues of locusts, plagues of lice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Foul food, foul water, and foul gases,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rank exhalations from morasses.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If you employ such low allies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This business you will vulgarize.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Renouncing then the field of fame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To wallow in a waste of shame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'll prostitute my strength and lurk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About the country doing work—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These hands to labor I'll devote,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor cut, by Heaven, another throat!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-pied-piper-of-brooklyn" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Pied Piper of Brooklyn</h3>
				<p>
					<span>So, Beecher's dead. His was a great soul, too—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Great as a giant organ is, whose reeds</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hold in them all the souls of all the creeds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That man has ever taught and never knew.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When on this mighty instrument was laid</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His hand Who fashioned it, our common moan</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was suppliant in its thundering. The tone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grew more vivacious when the Devil played.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No more those luring harmonies we hear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And lo! already men forget the sound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They turn, retracing all the dubious ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O'er which he'd led them stoutly by the ear.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="not-guilty" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Not Guilty</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"I saw your charms in another's arms,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Said a Grecian swain with his blood a-boil;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"And he kissed you fair as he held you there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A willing bird in a serpent's coil!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The maid looked up from the cinctured cup</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wherein she was crushing the berries red,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pain and surprise in her honest eyes—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"It was only one o' those gods," she said.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="presentiment" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Presentiment</h3>
				<p>
					<span>With saintly grace and reverent tread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She walked among the graves with me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Her every foot-fall seemed to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A benediction on the dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The guardian spirit of the place</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She seemed, and I some ghost forlorn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Surprised in the untimely morn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She made with her resplendent face.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Moved by some waywardness of will,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Three paces from the path apart</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She stepped and stood—my prescient heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was stricken with a passing chill.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The folk-lore of the years agone</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Remembering, I smiled and thought:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"Who shudders suddenly at naught,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His grave is being trod upon."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But now I know that it was more</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Than idle fancy. O, my sweet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I did not think such little feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could make a buried heart so sore!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-study-in-gray" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Study in Gray</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I step from the door with a shiver</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(This fog is uncommonly cold)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ask myself: What did I give her?—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The maiden a trifle gone-old,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With the head of gray hair that was gold.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, well, I suppose 'twas a dollar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And doubtless the change is correct,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though it's odd that it seems so much smaller</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Than what I'd a right to expect.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But you pay when you dine, I reflect.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So I walk up the street—'twas a saunter</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A score of years back, when I strolled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From this door; and our talk was all banter</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Those days when her hair was of gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the sea-fog less searching and cold.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I button my coat (for I'm shaken,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And fevered a trifle, and flushed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the wine that I ought to have taken,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Time was, at this coat I'd have blushed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though truly, 'tis cleverly brushed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A score? Why, that isn't so very</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Much time to have lost from a life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There's reason enough to be merry:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I've not fallen down in the strife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But marched with the drum and the fife.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If Hope, when she lured me and beckoned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had pushed at my shoulders instead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Fame, on whose favors I reckoned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had laureled the worthiest head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I could garland the years that are dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Believe me, I've held my own, mostly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Through all of this wild masquerade;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But somehow the fog is more ghostly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To-night, and the skies are more grayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like the locks of the restaurant maid.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If ever I'd fainted and faltered</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I'd fancy this did but appear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the climate, I'm certain, has altered—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Grown colder and more austere</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Than it was in that earlier year.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The lights, too, are strangely unsteady,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That lead from the street to the quay.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I think they'll go out—and I'm ready</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To follow. Out there in the sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The fog-bell is calling to me.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="for-merit" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">For Merit</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To Parmentier Parisians raise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A statue fine and large:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He cooked potatoes fifty ways,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor ever led a charge.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"<i>Palmam qui meruit"</i>—the rest</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You knew as well as I;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And best of all to him that best</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of sayings will apply.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let meaner men the poet's bays</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or warrior's medal wear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who cooks potatoes fifty ways</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shall bear the palm—de terre.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-bit-of-science" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Bit of Science</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What! photograph in colors? 'Tis a dream</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he who dreams it is not overwise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If colors are vibration they but seem,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And have no being. But if Tyndall lies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Why, come, then—photograph my lady's eyes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay, friend, you can't; the splendor of their blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As on my own beclouded orbs they rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To naught but vibratory motion's due,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As heart, head, limbs and all I am attest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How could her eyes, at rest themselves, be making</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In me so uncontrollable a shaking?</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1894">1894</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="the-tables-turned" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Tables Turned</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Over the man the street car ran,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the driver did never grin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"O killer of men, pray tell me when</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your laughter means to begin.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Ten years to a day I've observed you slay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And I never have missed before</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your jubilant peals as your crunching wheels</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Were spattered with human gore.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Why is it, my boy, that you smother your joy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And why do you make no sign</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the merry mind that is dancing behind</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A solemner face than mine?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The driver replied: "I would laugh till I cried</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If I had bisected you;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I'd like to explain, if I can for the pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">'Tis myself that I've cut in two."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-dejected-poet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To a Dejected Poet</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Thy gift, if that it be of God,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thou hast no warrant to appraise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor say: "Here part, O Muse, our ways,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The road too stony to be trod."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Not thine to call the labor hard</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the reward inadequate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who haggles o'er his hire with Fate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is better bargainer than bard.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What! count the effort labor lost</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When thy good angel holds the reed?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It were a sorry thing indeed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To stay him till thy palm be crossed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"The laborer is worthy"—nay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sacred ministry of song</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is rapture!—'t were a grievous wrong</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fix a wages-rate for play.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-fool" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Fool</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Says Anderson, Theosophist:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Among the many that exist</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In modern halls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some lived in ancient Egypt's clime</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in their childhood saw the prime</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Karnak's walls."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, Anderson, if that is true</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'T is my conviction, sir, that you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are one of those</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That once resided by the Nile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Peer to the sacred Crocodile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Heir to his woes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My judgment is, the holy Cat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mews through your larynx (and your hat)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">These many years.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through you the godlike Onion brings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its melancholy sense of things,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And moves to tears.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In you the Bull divine again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bellows and paws the dusty plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To nature true.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I challenge not his ancient hate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, lowering my knurly pate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lock horns with you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And though Reincarnation prove</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A creed too stubborn to remove,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And all your school</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Theosophs I cannot scare—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the more earnestly I swear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That you're a fool.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You'll say that this is mere abuse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without, in fraying you, a use.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That's plain to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With only half an eye. Come, now,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be fair, be fair,—consider how</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It eases <em>me</em>!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-humorist" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Humorist</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"What is that, mother?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="right">"The humorist, child.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His hands are black, but his heart is mild."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"May I touch him, mother?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="right">"'Twere needlessly done:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He is slightly touched already, my son."</span>
				</p>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<span>"O, why does he wear such a ghastly grin?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"That's the outward sign of a joke within."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Will he crack it, mother?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="right">"Not so, my saint;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'T is meant for the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Saturday Livercomplaint."</i></span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Does he suffer, mother?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="right">"God help him, yes!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A thousand and fifty kinds of distress."</span>
				</p>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<span>"What makes him sweat so?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="right">"The demons that lurk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the fear of having to go to work."</span>
				</p>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<span>"Why doesn't he end, then, his life with a rope?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Abolition of Hell has deprived him of hope."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="montefiore" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Montefiore</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I saw—'twas in a dream, the other night—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man whose hair with age was thin and white:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">One hundred years had bettered by his birth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And still his step was firm, his eye was bright.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Before him and about him pressed a crowd.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each head in reverence was bared and bowed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Jews and Gentiles in a hundred tongues</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Extolled his deeds and spoke his fame aloud.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I joined the throng and, pushing forward, cried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Montefiore!" with the rest, and vied</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In efforts to caress the hand that ne'er</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To want and worth had charity denied.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So closely round him swarmed our shouting clan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He scarce could breathe, and taking from a pan</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A gleaming coin he tossed it o'er our heads,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in a moment was a lonely man!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="discretion" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Discretion</h3>
				<table epub:type="z3998:drama">
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">She</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I'm told that men have sometimes got</span>
									<br/>
									<span class="i1">Too confidential, and</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Have said to one another what</span>
									<br/>
									<span class="i1">They—well, you understand.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I hope I don't offend you, sweet,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But are you sure that <i>you're</i> discreet?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>'Tis true, sometimes my friends in wine</span>
									<br/>
									<span class="i1">Their conquests <i>do</i> recall,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But none can truly say that mine</span>
									<br/>
									<span class="i1">Are known to him at all.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I never, never talk you o'er—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In truth, I never get the floor.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</article>
			<article id="an-exile" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Exile</h3>
				<p>
					<span>'Tis the census enumerator</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A-singing all forlorn:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It's ho! for the tall potater,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And ho! for the clustered corn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The whiffle-tree bends in the breeze and the fine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Large eggs are a-ripening on the vine.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Some there must be to till the soil</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the widow's weeds keep down.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wasn't cut out for rural toil</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But they <em>won't</em> let me live in town!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They're not so many by two or three,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As they think, but ah! they're too many for me."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thus the census man, bowed down with care,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Warbled his wood-note high.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There was blood on his brow and blood in his hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But he had no blood in his eye.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-division-superintendent" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Division Superintendent</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Baffled he stands upon the track—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The automatic switches clack.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where'er he turns his solemn eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The interlocking signals rise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The trains, before his visage pale,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Glide smoothly by, nor leave the rail.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No splinter-spitted victim he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hears uttering the note high C.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In sorrow deep he hangs his head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A-weary—would that he were dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now suddenly his spirits rise—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A great thought kindles in his eyes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hope, like a headlight's vivid glare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Splendors the path of his despair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His genius shines, the clouds roll back—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I'll place obstructions on the track!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-professional-eulogist" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To a Professional Eulogist</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Newman, in you two parasites combine:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As tapeworm and as graveworm too you shine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When on the virtues of the quick you've dwelt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pride of residence was all you felt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(What vain vulgarian the wish ne'er knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To paint his lodging a flamboyant hue?)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when the praises of the dead you've sung,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twas appetite, not truth, inspired your tongue;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As ill-bred men when warming to their wine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Boast of its merit though it be but brine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor gratitude incites your song, nor should—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even charity would shun you if she could.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You share, 'tis true, the rich man's daily dole,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But what you get you take by way of toll.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vain to resist you—vermifuge alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has power to push you from your robber throne.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When to escape you he's compelled to die</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hey! presto!—in the twinkling of an eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You vanish as a tapeworm, reappear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As graveworm and resume your curst career.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As host no more, to satisfy your need</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He serves as dinner your unaltered greed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O thrifty sycophant of wealth and fame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Son of servility and priest of shame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While naught your mad ambition can abate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To lick the spittle of the rich and great;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While still like smoke your eulogies arise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To soot your heroes and inflame our eyes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While still with holy oil, like that which ran</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down Aaron's beard, you smear each famous man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I cannot choose but think it very odd</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It ne'er occurs to you to fawn on God.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="election-day" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Election Day</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Despots effete upon tottering thrones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unsteadily poised upon dead men's bones,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Walk up! walk up! the circus is free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And this wonderful spectacle you shall see:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Millions of voters who mostly are fools—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Demagogues' dupes and candidates' tools,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Armies of uniformed mountebanks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And braying disciples of brainless cranks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Many a week they've bellowed like beeves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bitterly blackguarding, lying like thieves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Libeling freely the quick and the dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And painting the New Jerusalem red.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tyrants monarchical—emperors, kings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Princes and nobles and all such things—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Noblemen, gentlemen, step this way:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There's nothing, the Devil excepted, to pay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the freaks and curios here to be seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are very uncommonly grand and serene.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No more with vivacity they debate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor cheerfully crack the illogical pate;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No longer, the dull understanding to aid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stomach accepts the instructive blade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor the stubborn heart learns what is what</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From a revelation of rabbit-shot;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And vilification's flames—behold!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Burn with a bickering faint and cold.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Magnificent spectacle!—every tongue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Suddenly civil that yesterday rung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Like a clapper beating a brazen bell)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each fair reputation's eternal knell;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hands no longer delivering blows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And noses, for counting, arrayed in rows.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Walk up, gentlemen—nothing to pay—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Devil goes back to Hell to-day.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-militiaman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Militiaman</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"O warrior with the burnished arms—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With bullion cord and tassel—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pray tell me of the lurid charms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of service and the fierce alarms:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The storming of the castle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The charge across the smoking field,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The rifles' busy rattle—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What thoughts inspire the men who wield</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blade—their gallant souls how steeled</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And fortified in battle."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Nay, man of peace, seek not to know</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">War's baleful fascination—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soldier's hunger for the foe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His dread of safety, joy to go</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To court annihilation.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though calling bugles blow not now,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor drums begin to beat yet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One fear unmans me, I'll allow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And poisons all my pleasure: How</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If I should get my feet wet!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-welcome" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Welcome</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Because you call yourself Knights Templar, and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There's neither Knight nor Temple in the land,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Because you thus by vain pretense degrade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To paltry purposes traditions grand,—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Because to cheat the ignorant you say</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The thing that's not, elated still to sway</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The crass credulity of gaping fools</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And women by fantastical display,—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Because no sacred fires did ever warm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your hearts, high knightly service to perform—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A woman's breast or coffer of a man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The only citadel you dare to storm,—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Because while railing still at lord and peer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At pomp and fuss-and-feathers while you jeer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Each member of your order tries to graft</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A peacock's tail upon his barren rear,—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Because that all these things are thus and so,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I bid you welcome to our city. Lo!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You're free to come, and free to stay, and free</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As soon as it shall please you, sirs—to go.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-serenade" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Serenade</h3>
				<p>
					<span xml:lang="el">"Σάς ὰγαπῶ, σάς ὰγαπῶ,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He sang beneath her lattice.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"'Sas agapo'?" she murmured—"O,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I wonder, now, what <em>that</em> is!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Was she less fair that she did bear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So light a load of knowledge?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are loving looks got out of books,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or kisses taught in college?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Of woman's lore give me no more</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Than how to love,—in many</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A tongue men brawl: she speaks them all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who says "I love," in any.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-wise-and-good" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Wise and Good</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"O father, I saw at the church as I passed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The populace gathered in numbers so vast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That they couldn't get in; and their voices were low,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they looked as if suffering terrible woe."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"'Twas the funeral, child, of a gentleman dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For whom the great heart of humanity bled."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"What made it bleed, father, for every day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Somebody passes forever away?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do the newspaper men print a column or more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of every person whose troubles are o'er?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"O, no; they could never do that—and indeed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though printers might print it, no reader would read.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the sepulcher all, soon or late, must be borne,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But 'tis only the Wise and the Good that all mourn."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"That's right, father dear, but how can our eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Distinguish in dead men the Good and the Wise?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"That's easy enough to the stupidest mind:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They're poor, and in dying leave nothing behind."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Seest thou in mine eye, father, anything green?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And takest thy son for a gaping marine?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go tell thy fine tale of the Wise and the Good</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who are poor and lamented to babes in the wood."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And that horrible youth as I hastened away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was building a wink that affronted the day.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-lost-colonel" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Lost Colonel</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"'Tis a woeful yarn," said the sailor man bold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who had sailed the northern-lakes—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"No woefuler one has ever been told</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Exceptin' them called 'fakes.'"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Go on, thou son of the wind and fog,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For I burn to know the worst!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But his silent lip in a glass of grog</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was dreamily immersed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then he wiped it on his sleeve and said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"It's never like that I drinks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But what of the gallant gent that's dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I truly mournful thinks.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"He was a soldier chap—leastways</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As 'Colonel' he was knew;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An' he hailed from some'rs where they raise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A grass that's heavenly blue.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"He sailed as a passenger aboard</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The schooner 'Henery Jo.'</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O wild the waves and galeses roared,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like taggers in a show!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"But he sat at table that calm an' mild</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As if he never had let</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His sperit know that the waves was wild</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">An' everlastin' wet!—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Jest set with a bottle afore his nose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As was labeled 'Total Eclipse'</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(The bottle was) an' he frequent rose</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A glass o' the same to his lips.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"An' he says to me (for the steward slick</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the 'Henery Jo' was I):</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'This sailor life's the very old Nick—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On the lakes it's powerful dry!'</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I says: 'Aye, aye, sir, it beats the Dutch.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I hopes you'll outlast the trip.'</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But if I'd been him—an' I said as much—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I'd 'a' took a faster ship.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"His laughture, loud an' long an' free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Rang out o'er the tempest's roar.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'You're an elegant reasoner,' says he,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">'But it's powerful dry ashore!'"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"O mariner man, why pause and don</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A look of so deep concern?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have another glass—go on, go on,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For to know the worst I burn."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"One day he was leanin' over the rail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When his footing some way slipped,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An' (this is the woefulest part o' my tale),</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He was accidental unshipped!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"The empty boats was overboard hove,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As he swum in the 'Henery's wake';</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But 'fore we had 'bouted ship he had drove</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From sight on the ragin' lake!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"And so the poor gentleman was drowned—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And now I'm apprised of the worst."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"What! him? 'Twas an hour afore he was found—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the yawl—stone dead o' thirst!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="for-tat" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">For Tat</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O, heavenly powers! will wonders never cease?—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hair upon dogs and feathers upon geese!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The boys in mischief and the pigs in mire!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The drinking water wet! the coal on fire!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In meadows, rivulets surpassing fair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forever running, yet forever there!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A tail appended to the gray baboon!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A person coming out of a saloon!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Last, and of all most marvelous to see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A female Yahoo flinging filth at me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If 'twould but stick I'd bear upon my coat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May Little's proof that she is fit to vote.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-dilemma" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Dilemma</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Filled with a zeal to serve my fellow men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For years I criticised their prose and verges:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pointed out all their blunders of the pen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their shallowness of thought and feeling; then</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Damned them up hill and down with hearty curses!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They said: "That's all that he can do—just sneer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And pull to pieces and be analytic.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why doesn't he himself, eschewing fear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Publish a book or two, and so appear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As one who has the right to be a critic?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Let him who knows it all forbear to tell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How little others know, but show his learning."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The public added: "Who has written well</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May censure freely"—quoting Pope. I fell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Into the trap and books began out-turning,—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Books by the score—fine prose and poems fair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And not a book of them but was a terror,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They were so great and perfect; though I swear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I tried right hard to work in, here and there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(My nature still forbade) a fault or error.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'Tis true, some wretches, whom I'd scratched, no doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Professed to find—but that's a trifling matter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now, when the flood of noble books was out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I raised o'er all that land a joyous shout,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Till I was thought as mad as any hatter!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>(Why hatters all are mad, I cannot say.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">'T were wrong in their affliction to revile 'em,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But truly, you'll confess 'tis very sad</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We wear the ugly things they make. Begad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They'd be less mischievous in an asylum!)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Consistency, thou art a"—well, you're <i>paste</i>!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When next I felt my demon in possession,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made the field of authorship a waste,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All said of me: "What execrable taste,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To rail at others of his own profession!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Good Lord! where do the critic's rights begin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who has of literature some clear-cut notion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hears a voice from Heaven say: "Pitch in"?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He finds himself—alas, poor son of sin—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Between the devil and the deep blue ocean!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="metempsychosis" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Metempsychosis</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Once with Christ he entered Salem,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once in Moab bullied Balaam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once by Apuleius staged</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He the pious much enraged.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, again, his head, as beaver,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Topped the neck of Nick the Weaver.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Omar saw him (minus tether—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Free and wanton as the weather:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knowing naught of bit or spur)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stamping over Bahram-Gur.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now, as Altgeld, see him joy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As Governor of Illinois!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-saint-and-the-monk" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Saint and the Monk</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Saint Peter at the gate of Heaven displayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tools and terrors of his awful trade;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The key, the frown as pitiless as night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That slays intending trespassers at sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, at his side in easy reach, the curled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Interrogation points all ready to be hurled.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Straight up the shining cloudway (it so chanced</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No others were about) a soul advanced—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A fat, orbicular and jolly soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With laughter-lines upon each rosy jowl—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A monk so prepossessing that the saint</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Admired him, breathless, until weak and faint,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forgot his frown and all his questions too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forgoing even the customary "Who?"—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Threw wide the gate and, with a friendly grin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said, "'Tis a very humble home, but pray walk in."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The soul smiled pleasantly. "Excuse me, please—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who's in there?" By insensible degrees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The impudence dispelled the saint's esteem,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As growing snores annihilate a dream.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The frown began to blacken on his brow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His hand to reach for "Whence?" and "Why?" and "How?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"O, no offense, I hope," the soul explained;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I'm rather—well, particular. I've strained</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A point in coming here at all; 'tis said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Susan Anthony (I hear she's dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At last) and all her followers are here.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As company, they'd be—confess it—rather queer."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The saint replied, his rising anger past:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"What can I do?—the law is hard-and-fast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Albeit unwritten and on earth unknown—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An oral order issued from the Throne.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By but one sin has Woman e'er incurred</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God's wrath. To accuse Them Loud of that would be absurd."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That friar sighed, but, calling up a smile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said, slowly turning on his heel the while:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Farewell, my friend. Put up the chain and bar—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'm going, so please you, where the pretty women are."</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1895">1895</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="the-opposing-sex" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Opposing Sex</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Widows of Ashur</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are loud in their wailing:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"No longer the 'masher'</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sees Widows of Ashur!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So each is a lasher</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Man's smallest failing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Widows of Ashur</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are loud in their wailing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Cave of Adullam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That home of reviling—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No wooing can gull 'em</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Cave of Adullam.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No angel can lull 'em</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To cease their defiling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Cave of Adullam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That home of reviling.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>At men they are cursing—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Widows of Ashur;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Themselves, too, for nursing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The men they are cursing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The praise they're rehearsing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of every slasher</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At men. <em>They</em> are cursing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Widows of Ashur.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-high-life" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">In High Life</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Sir Impycu Lackland, from over the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has led to the altar Miss Bloatie Bondee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wedding took place at the Church of St. Blare;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fashion, the rank and the wealth were all there—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No person was absent of all whom one meets.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lord Mammon himself bowed them into their seats,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While good Sir John Satan attended the door</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Sexton Beelzebub managed the floor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Respectfully keeping each dog to its rug,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Preserving the peace between poodle and pug.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Twelve bridesmaids escorted the bride up the aisle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To blush in her blush and to smile in her smile;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Twelve groomsmen supported the eminent groom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To scowl in his scowl and to gloom in his gloom.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rites were performed by the hand and the lip</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of his Grace the Diocesan, Billingham Pip,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Assisted by three able-bodied divines.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He prayed and they grunted, he read, they made signs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such fashion, such beauty, such dressing, such grace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were ne'er before seen in that heavenly place!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That night, full of gin, and all blazing inside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sir Impycu blackened the eyes of his bride.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-whipper-in" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">A Whipper-in</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>Commissioner of Pensions Dudley has established a Sunday-school and declares he will remove any clerk in his department who does not regularly attend.</p>
						<cite epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">N.Y.</abbr> World</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Dudley, great placeman, man of mark and note,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Worthy of honor from a feeble pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Blunted in service of all true, good men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You serve the Lord—in courses, <i xml:lang="fr">table d'hôte</i>:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i xml:lang="fr">Au, naturel</i>, as well as <i xml:lang="fr">à la Nick</i>—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Eat and be thankful, though it make you sick."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O, truly pious caterer, forbear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To push the Saviour and Him crucified</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(<i xml:lang="fr">Brochette</i> you'd call it) into their inside</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who're all unused to such ambrosial fare.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stomach of the soul makes quick revulsion</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of aught that it has taken on compulsion.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I search the Scriptures, but I do not find</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That e'er the Spirit beats with angry wings</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For entrance to the heart, but sits and sings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To charm away the scruples of the mind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It says: "Receive me, please; I'll not compel"—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though if you don't you will go straight to Hell!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Well, that's compulsion, you will say. 'T is true:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We cower timidly beneath the rod</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lifted in menace by an angry God,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But won't endure it from an ape like you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Detested simian with thumb prehensile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Switch <em>me</em> and I would brain you with my pencil!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Face you the Throne, nor dare to turn your back</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On its transplendency to flog some wight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who gropes and stumbles in the infernal night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your ugly shadow lays along his track.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, Thou who from the Temple scourged the sin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behold what rascals try to scourge it in!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="judgment" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Judgment</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I drew aside the Future's veil</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And saw upon his bier</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The poet Whitman. Loud the wail</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And damp the falling tear.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"He's dead—he is no more!" one cried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With sobs of sorrow crammed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"No more? He's this much more," replied</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Another: "he is damned!"</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1885">1885</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="a-bubble" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Bubble</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Mrs. Mehitable Marcia Moore</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was a dame of superior mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a gown which, modestly fitting before,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was greatly puffed up behind.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The bustle she wore was ingeniously planned</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With an inspiration bright:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It magnified seven diameters and</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was remarkably nice and light.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It was made of rubber and edged with lace</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And riveted all with brass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the whole immense interior space</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Inflated with hydrogen gas.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The ladies all said when she hove in view</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like the round and rising moon:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"She's a stuck up thing!" which was partly true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And men called her the Captive Balloon.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To Manhattan Beach for a bath one day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She went and she said: "O dear!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If I leave off <em>this</em> what will people say?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I shall look so uncommonly queer!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So a costume she had accordingly made</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To take it all nicely in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when she appeared in that suit arrayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She was greeted with many a grin.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Proudly and happily looking around,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She waded out into the wet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the water was very, very profound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And her feet and her forehead met!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As her bubble drifted away from the shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On the glassy billows borne,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All cried: "Why, where is Mehitable Moore?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I saw her go in, I'll be sworn!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then the bulb it swelled as the sun grew hot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Till it burst with a sullen roar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the sea like oil closed over the spot—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Farewell, O Mehitable Moore!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="francine" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Francine</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Did I believe the angels soon would call</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You, my beloved, to the other shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And I should never see you any more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I love you so I know that I should fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into dejection utterly, and all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Love's pretty pageantry, wherein we bore</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Twin banners bravely in the tumult's fore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would seem as shadows idling on a wall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So daintily I love you that my love</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Endures no rumor of the winter's breath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And only blossoms for it thinks the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forever gracious, and the stars above</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Forever friendly. Even the fear of death</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Were frost wherein its roses all would die.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-example" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Example</h3>
				<p>
					<span>They were two deaf mutes, and they loved and they</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Resolved to be groom and bride;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they listened to nothing that any could say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor ever a word replied.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From wedlock when warned by the married men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Maintain an invincible mind:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be deaf and dumb until wedded—and then</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Be deaf and dumb and blind.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="revenge" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Revenge</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A spitcat sate on a garden gate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And a snapdog fared beneath;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Careless and free was his mien, and he</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Held a fiddle-string in his teeth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She marked his march, she wrought an arch</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of her back and blew up her tail;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And her eyes were green as ever were seen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And she uttered a woful wail.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The spitcat's plaint was as follows: "It ain't</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That I am to music a foe;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For fiddle-strings bide in my own inside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And I twang them soft and low.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"But that dog has trifled with art and rifled</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A kitten of mine, ah me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That catgut slim was marauded from him:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">'Tis the string that men call E."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then she sounded high, in the key of Y,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A note that cracked the tombs;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the missiles through the firmament flew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From adjacent sleeping-rooms.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As her gruesome yell from the gate-post fell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She followed it down to earth;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that snapdog wears a placard that bears</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The inscription: "Blind from birth."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-genesis-of-embarrassment" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Genesis of Embarrassment</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When Adam first saw Eve he said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"O lovely creature, share my bed."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before consenting, she her gaze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fixed on the greensward to appraise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As well as vision could avouch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The value of the proffered couch.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And seeing that the grass was green</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And neatly clipped with a machine—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Observing that the flow'rs were rare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Varieties, and some were fair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The posts of precious woods, besprent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With fragrant balsams, diffluent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all things suited to her worth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She raised her angel eyes from earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To his and, blushing to confess,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Murmured: "I love you, Adam—yes."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since then her daughters, it is said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Look always down when asked to wed.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-contumaciam" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">In Contumaciam</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Och! Father McGlynn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ye appear to be in</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fer a bit of a bout wid the Pope;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">An' there's divil a doubt</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But he's knockin' ye out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While ye're hangin' onto the rope.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">An' soon ye'll lave home</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To thravel to Rome,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For its bound to Canossa ye are.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Persistin' to shtay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When ye're ordered away—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bedad! that is goin' too far!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="from-the-minutes" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">From the Minutes</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When, with the force of a ram that discharges its ponderous body</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Straight at the rear elevation of the luckless culler of simples,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The foot of Herculean Kilgore—statesman of surname suggestive</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or carnage unspeakable!—lit like a missile prodigious</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the Congressional door with a monstrous and mighty momentum,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Causing that vain ineffective bar to political freedom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fly from its hinges, effacing the nasal excrescence of Dingley,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That luckless one, decently veiling the ruin with ready bandanna,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lamented the loss of his eminence, sadly with sobs as follows:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Ah, why was I ever elected to the halls of legislation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So soon to be shown the door with pitiless emphasis? Truly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I've leaned on a broken Reed, and the same has gone back on me meanly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where now is my prominence, erstwhile in council conspicuous, patent?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alas, I did never before understand what I now see clearly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To wit, that Democracy tends to level all human distinctions!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="woman-in-politics" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Woman in Politics</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What, madam, run for School Director? You?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And want my vote and influence? Well, well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That beats me! Gad! where <em>are</em> we coming to?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In all my life I never have heard tell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of such sublime presumption, and I smell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A nigger in the fence! Excuse me, madam;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We statesmen sometimes speak like the old Adam.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But now you mention it—well, well, who knows?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We might, that's certain, give the sex a show.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have a cousin—teacher. I suppose</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If I stand in and you're elected—no?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You'll make no bargains? That's a pretty go!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But understand that school administration</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Belongs to politics, not education.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We'll pass the teacher deal; but it were wise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To understand each other at the start.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You know my business—books and school supplies;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You'd hardly, if elected, have the heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some small advantage to deny me—part</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of all my profits to be yours. What? “Stealing”?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Please don't express yourself with so much feeling.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You pain me, truly. Now one question more.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Suppose a fair young man should ask a place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As teacher—would you (pardon) shut the door</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the Department in his handsome face</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Until—I know not how to put the case—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would you extort a kiss to pay your favor?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Good Lord! you laugh? I thought the matter graver.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Well, well, we can't do business, I suspect:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A woman has no head for politics.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My profitable offers you reject</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And will not promise anything to fix</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Things right that civic saints and angels mix.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Good morning. Stay—I'm chaffing you, conceitedly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Madam, I mean to vote for you—repeatedly.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-ballad-of-pikeville" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Ballad of Pikeville</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Down in Southern Arizona where the Gila monster thrives,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the "Mescalero," gifted with a hundred thousand lives,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every hour renounces one of them by drinking liquid flame—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The assassinating wassail that has given him his name;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the enterprising dealer in Caucasian hair is seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hold his harvest festival upon his village-green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While the late lamented tenderfoot upon the plain is spread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a sanguinary circle on the summit of his head;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the cactuses (or cacti) lift their lances in the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And incautious jackass-rabbits come to sorrow as they run,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lived a colony of settlers—old Missouri was the State</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where they formerly resided at a prehistoric date.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now, the spot that had been chosen for this colonizing scheme</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was as waterless, believe me, as an Arizona stream.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soil was naught but ashes, by the breezes driven free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And an acre and a quarter were required to sprout a pea.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So agriculture languished, for the land would not produce,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And for lack of water, whisky was the beverage in use—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Costly whisky, hauled in wagons many a weary, weary day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mostly needed by the drivers to sustain them on their way.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wicked whisky! King of Evils! Why, O, why did God create</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such a curse and thrust it on us in our inoffensive state?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Once a parson came among them, and a holy man was he;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With his ailing stomach whisky wouldn't anywise agree;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So he knelt upon the <i>mesa</i> and he prayed with all his chin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the Lord would send them water or incline their hearts to gin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scarcely was the prayer concluded ere an earthquake shook the land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with copious effusion springs burst out on every hand!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Merrily the waters gurgled, and the shock which gave them birth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fitly was by some declared a temperance movement of the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Astounded by the miracle, the people met that night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To celebrate it properly by some religious rite;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And 'tis truthfully recorded that before the moon had sunk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every man and every woman was devotionally drunk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A half a standard gallon (says history) per head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the best Kentucky prime was at that ceremony shed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, the glory of that country! O, the happy, happy folk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the might of prayer delivered from Nature's broken yoke!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo! the plains to the horizon all are yellowing with rye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the corn upon the hill-top lifts its banners to the sky!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gone the wagons, gone the drivers, and the road is grown to grass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over which the incalescent Bourbon did aforetime pass.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pikeville (that's the name they've given, in their wild, romantic way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To that irrigation district) now distills, statistics say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Something like a hundred gallons, out of each recurrent crop,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the head of population—and consumes it, every drop!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="convalescent-2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Convalescent</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"By good men's prayers see Grant restored!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shouts Talmage, pious creature!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yes, God, by supplication bored</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From every droning preacher,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exclaimed: "So be it, tiresome crew—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I've a crow to pick with <em>you</em>."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-augury" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Augury</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Upon my desk a single spray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With starry blossoms fraught.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I write in many an idle way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thinking one serious thought.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"O flowers, a fine Greek name ye bear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And with a fine Greek grace."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Be still, O heart, that turns to share</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sunshine of a face.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Have ye no messages—no brief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Still sign: 'Despair', or 'Hope'?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A sudden stir of stem and leaf—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A breath of heliotrope!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="lusus-politicus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Lusus Politicus</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Come in, old gentleman. How do you do?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Delighted, I'm sure, that you've called.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'm a sociable sort of a chap and you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are a pleasant-appearing person, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With a head agreeably bald.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That's right—sit down in the scuttle of coal</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And put up your feet in a chair.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It is better to have them there:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I've always said that a hat of lead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Such as I see you wear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was a better hat than a hat of glass.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And your boots of brass</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are a natural kind of boots, I swear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"May you blow your nose on a paper of pins?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Why, certainly, man, why not?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I rather expected you'd do it before,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When I saw you poking it in at the door.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">It's dev'lish hot—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The weather, I mean. "You are twins"?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why, that was evident at the start,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From the way that you paint your head</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In stripes of purple and red,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">With dots of yellow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">That proves you a fellow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a love of legitimate art.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"You've bitten a snake and are feeling bad"?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">That's very sad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But Longfellow's words I beg to recall:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your lot is the common lot of all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Horses are trees and the moon is a sneeze"?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That, I fancy, is just as you please.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some think that way and others hold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The contrary view;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">I never quite knew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">For the matter o' that,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When everything's been said—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">May I offer this mat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If you <em>will</em> stand on your head?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I suppose I look to be upside down</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From your present point of view.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It's a giddy old world, from king to clown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And a topsy-turvy, too.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, worthy and now uninverted old man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>You're</em> built, at least, on a normal plan</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">If ever a truth I spoke.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Smoke?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Your air and conversation</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Are a liberal education,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And your clothes, including the metal hat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the brazen boots—what's that?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"You never could stomach a Democrat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Since General Jackson ran?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You're another sort, but you predict</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That your party'll get consummately licked?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Good God! what a queer old man!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="bereavement" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Bereavement</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A Countess (so they tell the tale)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who dwelt of old in Arno's vale,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where ladies, even of high degree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Know more of love than of A.B.C,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came once with a prodigious bribe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unto the learned village scribe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That most discreet and honest man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who wrote for all the lover clan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor e'er a secret had betrayed—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save when inadequately paid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Write me," she sobbed—"I pray thee do—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A book about the Prince di Giu—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A book of poetry in praise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of all his works and all his ways;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The godlike grace of his address,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His more than woman's tenderness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His courage stern and lack of guile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The loves that wantoned in his smile.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So great he was, so rich and kind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'll not within a fortnight find</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His equal as a lover. O,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My God! I shall be drowned in woe!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"What! Prince di Giu has died!" exclaimed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The honest man for letters famed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The while he pocketed her gold;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Of what'?—if I may be so bold."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fresh storms of tears the lady shed:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I stabbed him fifty times," she said.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-pickbrain" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Pickbrain</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What! imitate me, friend? Suppose that you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With agony and difficulty do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What I do easily—what then? You've got</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A style I heartily wish <i>I</i> had not.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If I from lack of sense and you from choice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grieve the judicious and the unwise rejoice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No equal censure our deserts will suit—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We both are fools, but you're an ape to boot!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-naval-constructor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Naval Constructor</h3>
				<p>
					<span>He looked upon the ships as they</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All idly lay at anchor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their sides with gorgeous workmen gay—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The riveter and planker—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Republicans and Democrats,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Statesmen and politicians.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He saw the swarm of prudent rats</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Swimming for land positions.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He marked each "belted cruiser" fine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Her poddy life-belts floating</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In tether where the hungry brine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Impinged upon her coating.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He noted with a proud regard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As any of his class would,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The poplar mast and poplar yard</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Above the hull of bass-wood.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He saw the Eastlake frigate tall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With quaintly carven gable,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hip-roof and dormer-window—all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With ivy formidable.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In short, he saw our country's hope</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In best of all conditions—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Equipped, to the last spar and rope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By working politicians.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He boarded then the noblest ship</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And from the harbor glided.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Adieu, adieu!" fell from his lip.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Verdict: "He suicided."</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1881">1881</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="detected" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Detected</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In Congress once great Mowther shone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Debating weighty matters;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now into an asylum thrown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He vacuously chatters.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If in that legislative hall</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His wisdom still he'd vented,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It never had been known at all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That Mowther was demented.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="bimetalism" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Bimetalism</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Ben Bulger was a silver man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though not a mine had he:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He thought it were a noble plan</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To make the coinage free.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"There hain't for years been sech a time,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Said Ben to his bull pup,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"For biz—the country's broke and I'm</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The hardest kind of up.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"The paper says that that's because</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The silver coins is sea'ce,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that the chaps which makes the laws</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Puts gold ones in their place.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"They says them nations always be</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Most prosperatin' where</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wolume of the currency</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ain't so disgustin' rare."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His dog, which hadn't breakfasted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dissented from his view,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wished that he could swell, instead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The volume of cold stew.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Nobody'd put me up," said Ben,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"With patriot galoots</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which benefits their feller men</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By playin' warious roots;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"But havin' all the tools about,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I'm goin' to commence</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A-turnin' silver dollars out</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wuth eighty-seven cents.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"The feller takin' 'em can't whine:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(No more, likewise, can I):</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They're better than the genooine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which mostly satisfy.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"It's only makin' coinage free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And mebby might augment</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wolume of the currency</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A noomerous per cent."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I don't quite see his error nor</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Malevolence prepense,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But fifteen years they gave him for</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That technical offense.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-rich-testator" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Rich Testator</h3>
				<p>
					<span>He lay on his bed and solemnly "signed,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gasping—perhaps 'twas a jest he meant:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"This of a sound and disposing mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is the last ill-will and contestament."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="two-methods" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Two Methods</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To bucks and ewes by the Good Shepherd fed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Priest delivers masses for the dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And even from estrays outside the fold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death for the masses he would not withhold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Parson, loth alike to free or kill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forsakes the souls already on the grill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, God's prerogative of mercy shamming,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spares living sinners for a harder damning.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="foundations-of-the-state" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Foundations of the State</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Observe, dear Lord, what lively pranks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are played by sentimental cranks!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>First this one mounts his hinder hoofs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And brays the chimneys off the roofs;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then that one, with exalted voice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Expounds the thesis of his choice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our understandings to bombard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till all the window panes are starred!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A third augments the vocal shock</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till steeples to their bases rock,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Confessing, as they humbly nod,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They hear and mark the will of God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A fourth in oral thunder vents</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His awful penury of sense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till dogs with sympathetic howls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lowing cows, and cackling fowls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hens, geese, and all domestic birds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Attest the wisdom of his words.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cranks thus their intellects deflate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of theories about the State.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This one avers 'tis built on Truth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that on Temperance. This youth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Declares that Science bears the pile;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That graybeard, with a holy smile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Says Faith is the supporting stone;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While women swear that Love alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could so unflinchingly endure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The heavy load. And some are sure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The solemn vow of Christian Wedlock</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is the indubitable bedrock.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Physicians once about the bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of one whose life was nearly sped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blew up a disputatious breeze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About the cause of his disease:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This, that and t' other thing they blamed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Tut, tut!" the dying man exclaimed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"What made me ill I do not care;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You've not an ounce of it, I'll swear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And if you had the skill to make it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'd see you hanged before I'd take it!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-imposter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Imposter</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Must you, Carnegie, evermore explain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your worth, and all the reasons give again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why black and red are similarly white,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you and God identically right?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still must our ears without redress submit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hear you play the solemn hypocrite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Walking in spirit some high moral level,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Raising at once his eye-balls and the devil?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Great King of Cant! if Nature had but made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your mouth without a tongue I ne'er had prayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To have an earless head. Since she did not,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bear me, ye whirlwinds, to some favored spot—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some mountain pinnacle that sleeps in air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So delicately, mercifully rare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That when the fellow climbs that giddy hill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As, for my sins, I know at last he will,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To utter twaddle in that void inane</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His soundless organ he will play in vain.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="france" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">France</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Unhappy State! with horrors still to strive:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy Hugo dead, thy Boulanger alive;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A Prince who'd govern where he dares not dwell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And who for power would his birthright sell—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who, anxious o'er his enemies to reign,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grabs at the scepter and conceals the chain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While pugnant factions mutually strive</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By cutting throats to keep the land alive.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perverse in passion, as in pride perverse—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To all a mistress, to thyself a curse;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweetheart of Europe! every sun's embrace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Matures the charm and poison of thy grace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet time to thee nor peace nor wisdom brings:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In blood of citizens and blood of kings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stones of thy stability are set,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the fair fabric trembles at a threat.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-guest" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Guest</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Death, are you well? I trust you have no cough</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That's painful or in any way annoying—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No kidney trouble that may carry you off,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or heart disease to keep you from enjoying</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your meals—and ours. 'T were very sad indeed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To have to quit the busy life you lead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You've been quite active lately for so old</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A person, and not very strong-appearing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'm apprehensive, somehow, that my bold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Bad brother gave you trouble in the spearing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my two friends—I fear, sir, that you ran</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quite hard for them, especially the man.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I crave your pardon: 'twas no fault of mine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If you are overworked I'm sorry, very.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come in, old man, and have a glass of wine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What shall it be—madeira, port or sherry?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What! just a mug of blood? That's funny grog</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To ask a friend for, eh? Well, take it, hog!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-false-prophecy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A False Prophecy</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Dom Pedro, Emperor of far Brazil</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Whence coffee comes and the three-cornered nut),</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They say that you're imperially ill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And threatened with paralysis. Tut-tut!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though Emperors are mortal, nothing but</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A nimble thunderbolt could catch and kill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man predestined to depart this life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the assassin's bullet, bomb or knife.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sir, once there was a President who freed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Four million slaves; and once there was a Czar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who freed ten times as many serfs. Sins breed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The means of punishment, and tyrants are</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hurled headlong out of the triumphal car</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If faster than the law allows they speed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lincoln and Alexander struck a rut;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>You</em> freed slaves too. Paralysis—tut-tut!</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1885">1885</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="a-song-of-the-many" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Song of the Many</h3>
				<p>
					<span>God's people sorely were oppressed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I heard their lamentations long;—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I hear their singing, clear and strong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I see their banners in the West!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The captains shout the battle-cry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The legions muster in their might;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They turn their faces to the light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They lift their arms, they testify:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"We sank beneath the Master's thong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our chafing chains were ne'er undone;—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Now clash your lances in the sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bless your banners with a song!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"God bides His time with patient eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">While tyrants build upon the land;—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He lifts His face, he lifts His hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And from the stones His temples rise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Now Freedom waves her joyous wing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beyond the foemen's shields of gold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">March forward, singing, for, behold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The right shall rule while God is King!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="one-morning" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">One Morning</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Because that I am weak, my love, and ill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I cannot follow the impatient feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of my desire, but sit and watch the beat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the unpitying pendulum fulfill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hour appointed for the air to thrill</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And brighten at your coming. O my sweet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The tale of moments is at last complete—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tryst is broken on the gusty hill!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O lady, faithful-footed, loyal-eyed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The long leagues silence me; yet doubt me not;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Think rather that the clock and sun have lied</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And all too early, you have sought the spot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For lo! despair has darkened all the light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And till I see your face it still is night.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-king-of-bores" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The King of Bores</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Abundant bores afflict this world, and some</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are bores of magnitude that-come and—no,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They're always coming, but they never go—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like funeral pageants, as they drone and hum</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their lurid nonsense like a muffled drum,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or bagpipe's dread unnecessary flow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But one superb tormentor I can show—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prince Fiddlefaddle, Duc de Feefawfum.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He the johndonkey is who, when I pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Amorous verses in an idle mood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To nobody, or of her, reads them through</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, smirking, says he knows the lady; then</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Calls me sly dog. I wish he understood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">This tender sonnet's application too.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="history" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">History</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What wrecked the Roman power? One says vice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Another indolence, another dice.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Emascle says polygamy. "Not so,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Says Impycu—"'twas luxury and show."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The parson, lifting up a brow of brass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swears superstition gave the <i xml:lang="la">coup de grâce</i>,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Great Allison, the statesman-chap affirms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twas lack of coins (croaks Medico: "'Twas worms!")—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And John P. Jones the swift suggestion collars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Averring the no coins were silver dollars.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus, through the ages, each presuming quack</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Turns the poor corpse upon its rotten back,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Holds a new "autopsy" and finds that death</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Resulted partly from the want of breath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But chiefly from some visitation sad</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That points his argument or serves his fad.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They're all in error—never human mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cause of the disaster has divined.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What slew the Roman power? Well, provided</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You'll keep the secret, I will tell you. I did.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-hermit" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Hermit</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To a hunter from the city,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Overtaken by the night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spake, in tones of tender pity</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For himself, an aged wight:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I have found the world a fountain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of deceit and Life a sham.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have taken to the mountain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And a Holy Hermit am.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Sternly bent on Contemplation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Far apart from human kind—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the hill my habitation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the Infinite my mind.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Ten long years I've lived a dumb thing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Growing bald and bent with dole.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vainly seeking for a Something</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To engage my gloomy soul.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Gentle Pilgrim, while my roots you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Eat, and quaff my simple drink,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Please suggest whatever suits you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As a Theme for me to Think."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then the hunter answered gravely:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"From distraction free, and strife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You could ponder very bravely</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On the Vanity of Life."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"O, thou wise and learned Teacher,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You have solved the Problem well—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You have saved a grateful creature</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From the agonies of hell.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Take another root, another</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Cup of water: eat and drink.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now I have a Subject, brother,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Tell me What, and How, to think."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-yearly-lie" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Yearly Lie</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A merry Christmas? Prudent, as I live!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You wish me something that you need not give.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Merry or sad, what does it signify?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To you 't is equal if I laugh, or die.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your hollow greeting, like a parrot's jest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Finds all its meaning in the ear addressed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Why "merry" Christmas? Faith, I'd rather frown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than grin and caper like a tickled clown.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When fools are merry the judicious weep;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wise are happy only when asleep.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A present? Pray you give it to disarm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man more powerful to do you harm.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'T was not your motive? Well, I cannot let</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You pay for favors that you'll never get.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Perish the savage custom of the gift,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Founded in terror and maintained in thrift!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What men of honor need to aid their weal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They purchase, or, occasion serving, steal.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Go celebrate the day with turkeys, pies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sermons and psalms, and, for the children, lies.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let Santa Claus descend again the flue;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If Baby doubt it, swear that it is true.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"A lie well stuck to is as good as truth,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And God's too old to legislate for youth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hail Christmas! On my knees and fowl I fall:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For greater grace and better gravy call.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i xml:lang="fr">Vive l'Humbug!</i>—that's to say, God bless us all!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-apologue" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Apologue</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A traveler observed one day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A loaded fruit-tree by the way.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And reining in his horse exclaimed:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"The man is greatly to be blamed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who, careless of good morals, leaves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Temptation in the way of thieves.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now lest some villain pass this way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And by this fruit be led astray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To bag it, I will kindly pack</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It snugly in my saddle-sack."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He did so; then that Salt o' the Earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rode on, rejoicing in his worth.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="diagnosis" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Diagnosis</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Cried Allen Forman: "Doctor, pray</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Compose my spirits' strife:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O what may be my chances, say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of living all my life?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"For lately I have dreamed of high</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And hempen dissolution!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O doctor, doctor, how can I</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Amend my constitution?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The learned leech replied: "You're young</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And beautiful and strong—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Permit me to inspect your tongue:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">H'm, ah, ahem!—'tis long."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="fallen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Fallen</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O, hadst thou died when thou wert great,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When at thy feet a nation knelt</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To sob the gratitude it felt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thank the Saviour of the State,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gods might have envied thee thy fate!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then was the laurel round thy brow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And friend and foe spoke praise of thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">While all our hearts sang victory.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alas! thou art too base to bow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hide the shame that brands it now.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="dies-irae" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h3 epub:type="title" xml:lang="la">Dies Irӕ</h3>
						<h4 epub:type="subtitle">The Day of Wrath</h4>
					</hgroup>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>A recent republication of the late Gen. John A. Dix's disappointing translation of this famous medieval hymn, together with some researches into its history, which I happened to be making at the time, induces me to undertake a translation myself. It may seem presumption in me to attempt that which so many eminent scholars of so many generations have attempted before me; but failure of others encourages me to hope that success, being still unachieved, is still achievable. The fault of previous translations, from Lord Macaulay's to that of Gen. Dix, has been, I venture to think, a too strict literalness, whereby the delicate irony and subtle humor of the immortal poem—though doubtless these admirable qualities were well appreciated by the translators—have been sacrificed in the result. In none of the English versions that I have examined is more than a trace of the mocking spirit of insincerity pervading the whole prayer,—the cool effrontery of the suppliant in enumerating his demerits, his serenely illogical demands of salvation in spite, or rather because, of them, his meek submission to the punishment of others, and the many similarly pleasing characteristics of this amusing work being most imperfectly conveyed. By permitting myself a reasonable freedom of rendering—in many cases boldly supplying that "missing link" between the sublime and the ridiculous which the author, writing for the acute monkish apprehension of the thirteenth century, did not deem it necessary to insert—I have hoped at least partly to liberate the lurking devil of humor from his letters, letting him caper, not, certainly, as he does in the Latin, but as he probably would have done had his creator written in English. In preserving the metre and trochaic rhymes of the original, I have acted from the same reverent regard for the music with which, in the liturgy of the Church, the verses have become inseparably wedded that inspired Gen. Dix; seeking rather to surmount the obstacles to success by honest effort, than to avoid them by adopting an easier versification which would have deprived my version of all utility in religious service.</p>
						<p>I must bespeak the reader's charitable consideration in respect of the first stanza, the insuperable difficulties of which seem to have been purposely contrived in order to warn off trespassers at the very boundary of the alluring domain. I have got over the inhibition—somehow—but David and the Sibyl must try to forgive me if they find themselves represented merely by the names of those conspicuous personal qualities to which they probably owed their powers of prophecy, as Samson's strength lay in his hair.</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Day of Satan's painful duty!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Earth shall vanish, hot and sooty;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So says Virtue, so says Beauty.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah! what terror shall be shaping</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the Judge the truth's undraping—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cats from every bag escaping!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now the trumpet's invocation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Calls the dead to condemnation;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All receive an invitation.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Death and Nature now are quaking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the late lamented, waking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In their breezy shrouds are shaking.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lo! the Ledger's leaves are stirring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the Clerk, to them referring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Makes it awkward for the erring.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When the Judge appears in session,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We shall all attend confession,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Loudly preaching non-suppression.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>How shall I then make romances</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mitigating circumstances?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even the just must take their chances.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>King whose majesty amazes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save thou him who sings thy praises;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fountain, quench my private blazes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Pray remember, sacred Savior,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mine the playful hand that gave your</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death-blow. Pardon such behavior.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Seeking me, fatigue assailed thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Calvary's outlook naught availed thee;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now 'twere cruel if I failed thee.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Righteous judge and learned brother,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pray thy prejudices smother</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere we meet to try each other.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sighs of guilt my conscience gushes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my face vermilion flushes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spare me for my pretty blushes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thief and harlot, when repenting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou forgavest—complimenting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Me with sign of like relenting.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If too bold is my petition</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'll receive with due submission</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My dismissal—from perdition.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When thy sheep thou hast selected</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the goats, may I, respected,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stand amongst them undetected.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When offenders are indicted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with trial-flames ignited,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Elsewhere I'll attend if cited.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ashen-hearted, prone, and prayerful,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When of death I see the air full,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lest I perish too, be careful.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>On that day of lamentation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When, to enjoy the conflagration.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men come forth, O, be not cruel:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spare me, Lord—make them thy fuel.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="one-moods-expression" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">One Mood's Expression</h3>
				<p>
					<span>See, Lord, fanatics all arrayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">For revolution!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To foil their villainous crusade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unsheathe again the sacred blade</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Of persecution.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What though through long disuse 't is grown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">A trifle rusty?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Gainst modern heresy, whose bone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is rotten, and the flesh fly-blown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">It still is trusty.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Of sterner stuff thine ancient foes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Unapprehensive,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sprang forth to meet thy biting blows;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our zealots chiefly to the nose</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Assume the offensive.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then wield the blade their necks to hack,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Nor ever spare one.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy crowns of martyrdom unpack,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But see that every martyr lack</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The head to wear one.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="something-in-the-papers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Something in the Papers</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">"What's in the paper?" Oh, it's dev'lish dull:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There's nothing happening at all—a lull</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After the war-storm. Mr. Someone's wife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Killed by her lover with, I think, a knife.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A fire on Blank Street and some babies—one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two, three or four, I don't remember, done</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To quite a delicate and lovely brown.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A husband shot by woman of the town—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The same old story. Shipwreck somewhere south.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The crew, all saved—or lost. Uncommon drouth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Makes hundreds homeless up the River Mud—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though, come to think, I guess it was a flood.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'T is feared some bank will burst—or else it won't</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They always burst, I fancy—or they don't;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who cares a cent?—the banker pays his coin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And takes his chances: bullet in the groin—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that's another item—suicide—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fool lost his money (serve him right) and died.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heigh-ho! there's noth—Jerusalem! what's this:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tom Jones has failed! My God, what an abyss</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of ruin!—owes me seven hundred clear!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was ever such a damned disastrous year!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-binnacle" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">The Binnacle</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>The Church possesses the unerring compass whose needle points directly and persistently to the star of the eternal law of God.</p>
						<cite epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Religious Weekly</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>The Church's compass, if you please,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has two or three (or more) degrees</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of variation;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And many a soul has gone to grief</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On this or that or t'other reef</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through faith unreckoning or brief</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Miscalculation.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Misguidance is of perils chief</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To navigation.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The obsequious thing makes, too, you'll mark,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Obeisance through a little arc</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of declination;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Satan, fearing witches, drew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Death's pale horse, one day, a shoe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And nailed it to his door to undo</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Their machination.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since then the needle dips to woo</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">His habitation.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="one-president" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">One President</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"What are those, father?" "Statesmen, my child—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lacrymose, unparliamentary, wild."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"What are they that way for, father?" "Last fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Our candidate's better,' they said, 'than all!'"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"What did they say he was, father?" "A man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Built on a straight incorruptible plan—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Believing that none for an office would do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unless he were honest and capable too."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Poor gentlemen—<em>so</em> disappointed!" "Yes, lad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That is the feeling that's driving them mad;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They're weeping and wailing and gnashing because</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They find that he's all that they said that he was."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-bride" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Bride</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"You know, my friends, with what a brave carouse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I made a second marriage in my house—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Divorced old barren Reason from my bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And took the Daughter of the Vine to spouse."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So sang the Lord of Poets. In a gleam</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of light that made her like an angel seem,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Daughter of the Vine said: "I myself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Am Reason, and the Other was a Dream."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-man-born-blind" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Man Born Blind</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A man born blind received his sight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By a painful operation;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And these are things he saw in the light</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of an infant observation.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He saw a merchant, good and wise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And greatly, too, respected,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who looked, to those imperfect eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like a swindler undetected.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He saw a patriot address</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A noisy public meeting.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And said: "Why, that's a calf. I guess.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That for the teat is bleating."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A doctor stood beside a bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And shook his summit sadly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"O see that foul assassin!" said</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The man who saw so badly.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He saw a lawyer pleading for</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A thief whom they'd been jailing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And said: "That's an accomplice, or</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My sight again is failing."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Upon the Bench a Justice sat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With nothing to restrain him;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"'Tis strange," said the observer, "that</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They ventured to unchain him."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With theologic works supplied,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He saw a solemn preacher;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"A burglar with his kit," he cried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"To rob a fellow creature."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A bluff old farmer next he saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sell produce in a village,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And said: "What, what! is there no law</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To punish men for pillage?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A dame, tall, fair and stately, passed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who many charms united;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He thanked his stars his lot was cast</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where sepulchers were whited.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He saw a soldier stiff and stern,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"Full of strange oaths" and toddy;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But was unable to discern</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A wound upon his body.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ten square leagues of rolling ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To one great man belonging,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Looked like one little grassy mound</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With worms beneath it thronging.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A palace's well-carven stones,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where Dives dwelt contented,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seemed built throughout of human bones</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With human blood cemented.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He watched the yellow shining thread</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A silk-worm was a-spinning;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"That creature's coining gold." he said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"To pay some girl for sinning."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His eyes were so untrained and dim</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All politics, religions,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arts, sciences, appeared to him</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But modes of plucking pigeons.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And so he drew his final breath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And thought he saw with sorrow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some persons weeping for his death</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who'd be all smiles to-morrow.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-nightmare" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Nightmare</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I dreamed that I was dead. The years went by:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The world forgot that such a man as I</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had ever lived and written: other names</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were hailed with homage, in their turn to die.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Out of my grave a giant beech upgrew.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its roots transpierced my body, through and through,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My substance fed its growth. From many lands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men came in troops that giant tree to view.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'T was sacred to my memory and fame—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My monument. But Allen Forman came,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Filled with the fervor of a new untruth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And carved upon the trunk his odious name!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-wet-season" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">A Wet Season</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph" xml:lang="la">
						<p>Horas non numero nisi serenas.</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>The rain is fierce, it flogs the earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And man's in danger.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O that my mother at my birth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Had borne a stranger!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flooded ground is all around.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The depth uncommon.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How blest I'd be if only she</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Had borne a salmon.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If still denied the solar glow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">'Twere bliss ecstatic</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be amphibious—but O,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To be aquatic!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We're worms, men say, o' the dust, and they</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">That faith are firm of.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, then, be just: show me some dust</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To be a worm of.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The pines are chanting overhead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A psalm uncheering.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It's O, to have been for ages dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And hard of hearing!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Restore, ye Pow'rs, the last bright hours</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The dial reckoned;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twas in the time of Egypt's prime—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Rameses II.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-confederate-flags" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Confederate Flags</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Tut-tut! give back the flags—how can you care</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You veterans and heroes?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why should you at a kind intention swear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like twenty Neroes?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Suppose the act was not so overwise—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Suppose it was illegal—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is't well on such a question to arise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And pinch the Eagle?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, let's economize his breath to scold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And terrify the alien</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who tackles him, as Hercules of old</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The bird Stymphalian.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Among the rebels when we made a breach</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was it to get their banners?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That was but incidental—'twas to teach</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Them better manners.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They know the lesson well enough to-day;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Now, let us try to show them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That we're not only stronger far than they.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(How we did mow them!)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But more magnanimous. My lads, 'tis plain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">'Twas an uncommon riot;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The warlike tribes of Europe fight for gain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We fought for quiet.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If we were victors, then we all must live</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With the same flag above us;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twas all in vain unless we now forgive</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And make them love us.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let kings keep trophies to display above</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Their doors like any savage;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The freeman's trophy is the foeman's love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Despite war's ravage.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Make treason odious?" My friends, you'll find</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You can't, in right and reason,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While "Washington" and "treason" are combined—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"Hugo" and "treason."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All human governments must take the chance</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And hazard of sedition.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, wretch! to pledge your manhood in advance</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To blind submission.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It may be wrong, it may be right, to rise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In warlike insurrection:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The loyalty that fools so dearly prize</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">May mean subjection.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Be loyal to your country, yes—but how</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If tyrants hold dominion?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The South believed they did; can't you allow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For that opinion?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He who will never rise though rulers plods</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His liberties despising</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How is he manlier than the <i xml:lang="fr">sans-culottes</i></span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who's always rising?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Give back the foolish flags whose bearers fell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Too valiant to forsake them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is it presumptuous, this counsel? Well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I helped to take them.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1891">1891</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="haec-fabula-docet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title" xml:lang="la">Hӕc Fabula Docet</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A rat who'd gorged a box of bane</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And suffered an internal pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came from his hole to die (the label</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Required it if the rat were able)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And found outside his habitat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A limpid stream. Of bane and rat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'T was all unconscious; in the sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It ran and prattled just for fun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Keen to allay his inward throes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The beast immersed his filthy nose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And drank—then, bloated by the stream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And filled with superheated steam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exploded with a rascal smell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remarking, as his fragments fell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Astonished in the brook: "I'm thinking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This water's damned unwholesome drinking!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="again" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Again</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Well, I've met her again—at the Mission.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She'd told me to see her no more;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was not a command—a petition;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I'd granted it once before.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yes, granted it, hoping she'd write me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Repenting her virtuous freak—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Subdued myself daily and nightly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For the better part of a week.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And then ('twas my duty to spare her</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The shame of recalling me) I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just sought her again to prepare her</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For an everlasting good-bye.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O, that evening of bliss—shall I ever</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Cease living it over?—although</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She said, when 'twas ended: "You're never</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To see me again. And now go."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As we parted with kisses 'twas human</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And natural for me to smile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As I thought, "She's in love, and a woman:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She'll send for me after a while."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But she didn't; and so—well, the Mission</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is fine, picturesque and gray;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis an excellent place for contrition—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And sometimes she passes that way.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That's how it occurred that I met her,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And that's all there is to tell—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Except that I'd like to forget her</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Calm way of remarking: "I'm well."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It was hardly worth while, all this keying</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My soul to such tensions and stirs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To learn that her food was agreeing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With that little stomach of hers.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="homo-podunkensis" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Homo Podunkensis</h3>
				<p>
					<span>As the poor ass that from his paddock strays</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Might sound abroad his field-companions' praise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Recounting volubly their well-bred leer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their port impressive and their wealth of ear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mistaking for the world's assent the clang</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of echoes mocking his accurst harangue;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So the dull clown, untraveled though at large,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Visits the city on the ocean's marge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Expands his eyes and marvels to remark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each coastwise schooner and each alien bark;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prates of "all nations," wonders as he stares</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That native merchants sell imported wares,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor comprehends how in his very view</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A foreign vessel has a foreign crew;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet, faithful to the hamlet of his birth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swears it superior to aught on earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sighs for the temples locally renowned—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The village school-house and the village pound—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And chalks upon the palaces of Rome</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The peasant sentiments of "Home, Sweet Home!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-social-call" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Social Call</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Well, well, old Father Christmas, is it you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With your thick neck and thin pretense of virtue?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Less redness in the nose—nay, even some blue</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Would not, I think, particularly hurt you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When seen close to, not mounted in your car,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You look the drunkard and the pig you are.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No matter, sit you down, for I am not</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In a gray study, as you sometimes find me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Merry? O, no, nor wish to be, God wot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But there's another year of pain behind me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That's something to be thankful for: the more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There are behind, the fewer are before.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I know you, Father Christmas, for a scamp,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But Heaven endowed me at my soul's creation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With an affinity to every tramp</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That walks the world and steals its admiration.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For admiration is like linen left</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the line—got easiest by theft.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Good God! old man, just think of it! I've stood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With brains and honesty, some five-and-twenty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Long years as champion of all that's good,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And taken on the mazzard thwacks a-plenty.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet now whose praises do the people bawl?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those of the fellows whom I live to maul!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Why, this is odd!—the more I try to talk</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of you the more my tongue grows egotistic</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To prattle of myself! I'll try to balk</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Its waywardness and be more altruistic.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So let us speak of others—how they sin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And what a devil of a state they 're in!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That's all I have to say. Good-bye, old man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Next year you possibly may find me scolding—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or miss me altogether: Nature's plan</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Includes, as I suppose, a final folding</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of these poor empty hands. Then drop a tear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To think they'll never box another ear.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="my-day-of-life" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">My Day of Life</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I know not how it is — it seems</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fantastic and surprising</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That after all these dreams and dreams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here in the sun's first level beams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sun is still just rising!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When first he showed his sovereign face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And bade the night-folk scuttle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Back to their holes, I took my place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here on the hill, and God His grace</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sent slumber soft and subtle.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Among the poppies red and white,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I've lain and drowsed, for all it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Appears a sluggardly delight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I must have had a wakeful night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though, faith, I don't recall it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And, O I've dreamed so many things!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">One hardly can unravel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tangled web of visionings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That slumber-of-the-morning brings:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Play, stu'dy, work and travel;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The love of women (mostly those</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Were fairest that were newest);</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hard knocks from friends and other foes:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Compacts with men (my memory shows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The deadest are the truest);</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>War—what a hero I became</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By merely dreaming battle!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Athwart the field of letters, Fame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blared through the brass my weary name</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With an ominous death-rattle.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Such an eternity of thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Within a minute's fraction!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such phantoms out of nothing wrought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fading suddenly to naught</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As I awake to action!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They scamper each into its hole,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">These dreams of my begetting.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They've had their moment; take, my soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy day of life. … Gods! this is droll—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That thieving sun is setting!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
		<section id="the-scrap-heap" epub:type="division">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Scrap Heap</h2>
			<article id="poesy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Poesy</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Successive bards pursue Ambition's fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That shines, Oblivion, above thy mire.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The latest mounts his predecessor's trunk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sinks his brother ere himself is sunk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So die ingloriously Fame's <i xml:lang="fr">élite</i>,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But dams of dunces keep the line complete.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="hospitality" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Hospitality</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Why ask me, Gastrogogue, to dine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Unless to praise your rascal wine)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet never ask some luckless sinner</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who needs, as I do not, a dinner?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="magnanimity" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Magnanimity</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"To the will of the people we loyally bow!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That's the minority shibboleth now.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O noble antagonists, answer me flat—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What would you do if you didn't do that?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="understated" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Understated</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"I'm sorry I married," says Upton Sinclair:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"The conjugal status is awful!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The devil's device, a delusion and snare."</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Worse, far worse than that—it is lawful!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-attorney-general" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Attorney-General</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Philander Knox!—I know him by the sound;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His sleep, unlike his learning, is profound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No dreams of duty mar his loud repose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor strain the cobwebs tethering his nose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which, roaring ever like the solemn sea.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Proclaims to all the world that this is he.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In thought a tortoise but in act a hare.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slow to decide and impotent to dare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet no important crisis he ignores.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But sleeps upon it, and for action—snores.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="financial-news" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Financial News</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Says Rockefeller: "Money is not tight,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, faith, I'm thinking that the man is right.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If it were not, at least in morals, loose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He hardly could command it for his use.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="aspiration" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Aspiration</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>No man can truthfully say that he would not like to be President.</p>
						<cite>William C. Whitney</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Lo! the wild rabbit, happy in the pride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of qualities to meaner beasts denied,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Surveys the ass with reverence and fear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Adoring his superior length of ear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And says: "No living creature, lean or fat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But wishes in his heart to be like That!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="democracy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Democracy</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Let slaves and subjects with unvaried psalms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before their sovereign execute salaams;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The freeman scorns one idol to adore—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tom, Dick and Harry and himself are four.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-enemy-to-law-and-order" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Enemy to Law and Order</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A is defrauded of his land by B,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who's driven from the premises by C.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>D buys the place with coin of plundered E.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"That A's an Anarchist!" says F to G.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="foresight" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Foresight</h3>
				<p>
					<span>An "actors' cemetery"! Sure</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The devil never tires</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of planning places to procure</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sticks to feed his fires.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-fair-division" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Fair Division</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Another Irish landlord gone to grass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slain by the bullets of the tenant class!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pray, good agrarians, what wrong requires</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such foul redress? Between you and the squires</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All Ireland's parted with an even hand—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For you have all the ire, they all the land.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-lacking-factor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Lacking Factor</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"You acted unwisely," I cried, "as you see</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By the outcome." He calmly eyed me:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"When choosing the course of my action," said he,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"I had not the outcome to guide me."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-politician" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Politician</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Let Glory's sons manipulate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tiller of the Ship of State.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be mine the humble, useful toil</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To work the tiller of the soil."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="elihu-root" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Elihu Root</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Stoop to a dirty trick or low misdeed?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What, bend him from his moral skies to it?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No, no, not he! To serve his nature's need</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He may upon occasion rise to it.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-error" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Error</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Good for he's old? Ah, Youth, you do not dream</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How sweet the roses in the autumn seem!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="vanished-at-cock-crow" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Vanished at Cock-Crow</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"I've found the secret of your charm," I said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Expounding with complacency my guess.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alas! the charm, even as I named it, fled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For all its secret was unconsciousness.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="woman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Woman</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Study good women and ignore the rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For he best knows the sex who knows the best.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-partisans-protest" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Partisan's Protest</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O statesmen, what would you be at,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With torches, flags and bands?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You make me first throw up my hat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And then my hands.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-bequest-to-music" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Bequest to Music</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Let music flourish!" So he said and died.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hark! ere he's gone the minstrelsy begins:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The symphonies ascend, a swelling tide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Melodious thunders fill the welkin wide—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The grand old lawyers, chinning on their chins!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="oneiromancy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Oneiromancy</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I fell asleep and dreamed that I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was flung, like Vulcan, from the sky;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like him was lamed—another part:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His leg was crippled and my heart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I woke in time to see my love</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Conceal a letter in her glove.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="july-fourth" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">July Fourth</h3>
				<p>
					<span>God said: "Let there be noise." The dawning fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Independence gilded every spire.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-paradox" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Paradox</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"If life were not worth having," said the preacher,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"'T would have in suicide one pleasant feature."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"An error," said the pessimist, "you're making:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What's not worth having cannot be worth taking."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="reedified" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Reedified</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Lord of the tempest, pray refrain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From leveling this church again.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now in its doom, since so you've willed it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We acquiesce. But <em>you'll</em> rebuild it.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-bulletin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Bulletin</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Lothario is very low,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So all the doctors tell.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay, nay, not <i>so</i>—he will be, though,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If ever he get well.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-inscription-2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">An Inscription</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>For a Statue of Napoleon</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>A famous conqueror, in battle brave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who robbed the cradle to supply the grave.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His reign laid quantities of human dust:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He fell upon the just and the unjust.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-erroneous-assumption" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Erroneous Assumption</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Good for he's old? Ah, Youth, you do not dream</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How sweet the roses in the autumn seem!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-constructor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Constructor</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I saw the devil. He was working free—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A customs-house he builded by the sea.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Why do you this?" The devil raised his head:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Of churches I have built enough," he said.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="god-complies" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">God Complies</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"By prayer see Megapomp restored,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shouts Martext, pious creature.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yes, God by supplication bored</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From every droning preacher.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exclaimed: "So be it, tiresome crew;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I'e a crow to pick with you."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-articulo-mortis" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">In Articulo Mortis</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The paper presented he solemnly signed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Gasping—perhaps 'twas a jest he meant:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"This of a sound and disposing mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is the last illwill and contestament."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-discoverers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Discoverers</h3>
				<p>
					<span>My! how my fame rings out in ever zone—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A thousand critics shouting: "He's unknown!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="unexpounded" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Unexpounded</h3>
				<p>
					<span>On Evidence, on Deeds, on Bills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On Copyhold, on Loans, on Wills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lawyers great books indite;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The creaking of their busy quills</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I've never heard on Right.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-eastern-question" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Eastern Question</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Looking across the line, the Grecian said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"This border I will stain a Turkey red."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Moslem smiled securely and replied:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"No Greek has ever for his country dyed."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While thus each patriot guarded his frontier,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Powers stole all the country in his rear.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="two-types" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Two Types</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Courageous fool!—the peril's strength unknown.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Courageous man!—so conscious of your own.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-critic-of-tennyson" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To a Critic of Tennyson</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Affronting fool, subdue your transient light;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Wisdom's dull dares Folly to be bright:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If Genius stumble in the path to fame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis decency in dunces to go lame.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="cooperation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Cooperation</h3>
				<p>
					<span>No more the swindler singly seeks his prey;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hunt in couples is the modern way—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A rascal, from the public to purloin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An honest man to hide away the coin.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="humility" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Humility</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Great poets fire the world with fagots big</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That make a crackling racket,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I'm content with but a whispering twig</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To warm some single jacket.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="strained-relations" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Strained Relations</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Says England to Germany: "Africa's ours."</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Says Germany: "Ours, I opine."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Says Africa: "Tell me, delectable Powers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What is it that ought to be mine?"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="exoneration" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Exoneration</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When men at candidacy don't connive,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From that suspicion if their friends would free 'em,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The teeth and nails with which they did not strive</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Should be exhibited in a museum.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="after-portsmouth" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">After Portsmouth</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Begirt with bombs that fall and flames that rise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Tsar, bewildered, stares. "Alas," he cries,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Life withholds joy and death denies release!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Roosevelt would have me think this peace."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-voice-from-pekin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Voice from Pekin</h3>
				<p>
					<span>" 'Empress of China'! I nor rule nor reign:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wear the purple but to hide the chain—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Free only to hold back the open door</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For foreign devils drunk upon my floor."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-pious-rite" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Pious Rite</h3>
				<p>
					<span>On Maunday Thursday, as was good and meet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Emperor of Austria washed the feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of twelve poor men to show how humble he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For twenty minutes of the year could be.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Thou, who trackest tenants of the throne</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through moral quagmires, make them wash their own.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="justice" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Justice</h3>
				<p>
					<span>She jilted me. I madly cried:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"The grave at least can hold her!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reflecting then that if she died</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">'Twould stop her growing older,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I pitilessly sheathed the knife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sternly sentenced her to life!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="at-the-beach" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">At the Beach</h3>
				<p>
					<span>List, England, to our words of scorn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For noblemen to title born!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet be thine eyes awhile depressed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For one has turned his prow to-west,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we, to catch his landing-line,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are pickling all our shins in brine.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-infraction-of-the-rules" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Infraction of the Rules</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A duel in France, and the victor pursued</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the dogs of the law, by the multitude,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By society's fierce ill-will!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O what is the matter? The man was so rude,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That he made an attempt to kill I</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="conversely" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Conversely</h3>
				<p>
					<span>There's grief in Belgrade, for no crown, it is said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is found for King Peter in all of the town.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How sad that he's lacking a crown for his head!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How sweet were he lacking a head for his crown!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-warning" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Warning</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Cried Age to Youth: "Abate your speed!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The distance hither's brief indeed."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But Youth pressed on without delay—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shout had reached but half the way.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="psychographs" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Psychographs</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Says Gerald Massey: "When I write, a band</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of souls of the departed guides my hand."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How strange that poems cumbering our shelves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Penned by immortal parts, have none themselves!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="for-wounds" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">For Wounds</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O bear me, gods, to some enchanted isle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where woman's tears can antidote her smile.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-literary-method" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Literary Method</h3>
				<p>
					<span>His "Hoosier poems" Riley says he writes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Upon an empty stomach. Heavenly Powers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Feed him throat-full: for what the wretch indites</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Upon his empty stomach empties ours!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="back-to-nature" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Back to Nature</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Nathaniel, Julian, Hildegardy!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sure the stock is far from hardy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the name once heard with awe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now provokes the loud guffaw—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Hawthorne" in the memory dear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Haw-haw-hawthorne" in the ear!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="rudolph-block" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Rudolph Block</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What parallel, neighbor, be pleased to expound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twixt Belgium's king and you may be found?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why this: if the cable dispatches are true</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He lies on his deathbed. So would you.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="boycott" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Boycott</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"This thing's a bomb," said Gompers, lighting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fuse; " 'twill blow them all a kiting!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, now 'tis shattered all to pieces.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Gompers but a spot of grease is.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-her" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To Her</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O, Sinner A, to me unknown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be such a conscience as your own!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To ease it you to Sinner B</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Confess the sins of Sinner C.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="creation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Creation</h3>
				<p>
					<span>God dreamed—the suns sprang flaming into place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sailing worlds with many a venturous race!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He woke—His smile alone illumined space.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="rebuke" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Rebuke</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When Admonition's hand essays</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our greed to curse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its lifted finger oft displays</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our missing purse.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="prayer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Prayer</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Fear not in any tongue to call</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the Lord—He's skilled in all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But if He answereth my plea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He speaketh one unknown to me.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-long-fear" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Long Fear</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Noting the hangman's frown and the law's righteous rage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our murderers live in terror till they die of age.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-inspired-performance" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Inspired Performance</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Devil troubled a pool of mud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Vierick from out the smother</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arose and to prove his royal blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Defamed his peasant mother.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear Devil, his poems—we'll suffer all those,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But do not again provoke him to prose.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="sepulture" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Sepulture</h3>
				<p>
					<span>" Let's bury the hatchet," said Miller to Platt;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Platt said to Miller: "I'll gladly do that."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On its grave, Warner Miller, the grasses grow not,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the wind in your hair whistles over the spot.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
		<section id="black-beetles-in-amber" epub:type="division">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Black Beetles in Amber</h2>
			<article id="the-key-note" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Key Note</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I dreamed I was dreaming one morn as I lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In a garden with flowers teeming.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On an island I lay in a mystical bay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the dream that I dreamed I was dreaming.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The ghost of a scent—had it followed me there</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From the place where I truly was resting?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It filled like an anthem the aisles of the air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The presence of roses attesting.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet I thought in the dream that I dreamed I dreamed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That the place was all barren of roses—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That it only seemed; and the place, I deemed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was the Isle of Bewildered Noses.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Full many a seaman had testified</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How all who sailed near were enchanted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And landed to search (and in searching died)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For the roses the Sirens had planted.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For the Sirens were dead, and the billows boomed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the stead of their singing forever;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the roses bloomed on the graves of the doomed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though man had discovered them never.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I thought in my dream 'twas an idle tale,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A delusion that mariners cherished—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the fragrance loading the conscious gale</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was the ghost of a rose long perished.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I said, "I will fly from this island of woes."</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And acting on that decision,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By that odor of rose I was led by the nose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For 'twas truly, ah! truly, Elysian.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I ran, in my madness, to seek out the source</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the redolent river—directed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By some supernatural, sinister force</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To a forest, dark, haunted, infected.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And still as I threaded ('twas all in the dream</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That I dreamed I was dreaming) each turning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There were many a scream and a sudden gleam</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of eyes all uncannily burning!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The leaves were all wet with a horrible dew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That mirrored the red moon's crescent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all shapes were fringed with a ghostly blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dim, wavering, phosphorescent.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But the fragrance divine, coming strong and free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Led me on, though my blood was clotting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till—ah, joy!—I could see, on the limbs of a tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Mine enemies hanging and rotting!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="cain" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Cain</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Lord, shed thy light upon his desert path,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And gild his branded brow, that no man spill</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His forfeit life to balk thy holy will</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That spares him for the ripening of wrath.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Already, lo! the red sign is descried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To trembling jurors visibly revealed:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The prison doors obediently yield,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The baffled hangman flings the cord aside.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Powell, the brother's blood that marks your trail—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hark, how it cries against you from the ground,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like the far baying of the tireless hound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faith! to your ear it is no nightingale.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What signifies the date upon a stone?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To-morrow you shall die if not to-day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What matter when the Avenger choose to slay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or soon or late the Devil gets his own.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thenceforth through all eternity you'll hold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No one advantage of the later death.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though you had granted Ralph another breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would <i>he</i> to-day less silent lie and cold?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Earth cares not, curst assassin, when you die;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You never will be readier than now.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wear, in God's name, that mark upon your brow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And keep the life you purchased with a lie!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="one-judge" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">One Judge</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Wallace, created on a noble plan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To show us that a Judge can be a Man;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through moral mire exhaling mortal stench</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God-guided sweet and foot-clean to the Bench;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In salutation here and sign I lift</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A hand as free as yours from lawless thrift,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A heart—ah, would I truly could proclaim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My bosom lighted with so pure a flame!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alas, not love of justice moves my pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To praise, or to condemn, my fellow men.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Good will and ill its busy point incite:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I do but gratify them when I write.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In palliation, though, I'd humbly state,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I love the righteous and the wicked hate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, sir, although we differ we agree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our work alike from persecution free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Heaven, approving you, consents to me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Take, therefore, from this not all useless hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The crown of honor—not in all the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One honest man dissenting from the choice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor in approval one Fred. Crocker's voice!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-obituarian" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Obituarian</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Death-poet Pickering sat at his desk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wrapped in appropriate gloom;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His posture was pensive and picturesque,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like a raven charming a tomb.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Enter a party a-drinking the cup</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of sorrow—and likewise of woe:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Some harrowing poetry, Mister, whack up,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All wrote in the key of O.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"For the angels has called my old woman hence</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From the strife (where she fit mighty free).</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It's a nickel a line? Cond—n the expense!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For wealth is now little to me."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Bard of Mortality looked him through</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the piercingest sort of a way:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"It is much to me though it's little to you—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I've <i>taken</i> a wife to-day."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So he twisted the tail of his mental cow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And made her give down her flow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The grief of that bard was long-winded, somehow—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">There was reams and reamses of woe.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The widower man which had buried his wife</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Grew lily-like round each gill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For she turned in her grave and came back to life—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Then he cruel ignored the bill!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then Sorrow she opened her gates a-wide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As likewise did also Woe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the death-poet's song, as is heard inside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is sang in the key of O.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-commuted-sentence" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Commuted Sentence</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Boruck and Waterman upon their grills</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In Hades lay, with many a sigh and groan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hotly disputing, for each swore his own</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were clearly keener than the other's ills.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And, truly, each had much to boast of—bone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sinew, muscle, tallow, nerve and skin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blood in the vein and marrow in the shin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Teeth, eyes and other organs (for the soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has all of these and even a wagging chin)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Blazing and coruscating like a coal!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Lower Sacramento, you remember,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has trying weather, even in mid-December.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now this occurred in the far future. All</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Mankind had been a million ages dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And each to her reward above had sped,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each to his punishment below,—I call</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That quite a just arrangement. As I said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Boruck and Waterman in warmest pain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crackled and sizzed with all their might and main.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For, when on earth, they'd freed a scurvy host</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of crooks from the State prison, who again</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had robbed and ravaged the Pacific Coast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And (such the felon's predatory nature)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even got themselves into the Legislature.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So Waterman and Boruck lay and roared</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In Hades. It is true all other males</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Felt the like flames and uttered equal wails,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But did not suffer <i>them</i>; whereas <i>they</i> bored</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Each one the other. But indeed my tale's</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not getting on at all. They lay and browned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till Boruck (who long since his teeth had ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Away and spoke Gum Arabic and made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stump speeches even in praying) looked around</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And said to Bob's incinerated shade:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Your Excellency, this is mighty hard on</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The inventors of the unpardonable pardon."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The other soul—his right hand all aflame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For 'twas with that he'd chiefly sinned, although</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His tongue, too, like a wick was working woe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the reserve of tallow in his frame—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Said, with a sputtering, uncertain flow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with a gesture like a shaken torch:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Yes, but I'm sure we'll not much longer scorch.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Although this climate is not good for Hope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose joyous wing 'twould singe, I think the porch</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Hell we'll quit with a pacific slope.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Last century I signified repentance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And asked for commutation of our sentence."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Even as he spoke, the form of Satan loomed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In sight, all crimson with reflections's fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like some tall tower or cathedral spire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Touched by the dawn while all the earth is gloomed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In mists and shadows of the night time. "Sire,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said Waterman, his agitable wick</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still sputtering, "what calls you back so quick?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It scarcely was a century ago</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You left us." "I have come to bring," said Nick,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"St. Peter's answer (he is never slow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In correspondence) to your application</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For pardon—pardon me!—for commutation.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"He says that he's instructed to reply</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(And he has so instructed me) that sin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like yours—and this poor gentleman's who's in</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For bad advice to you—comes rather high;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But since, apparently, you both begin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To feel some pious promptings to the right,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fain would turn your faces to the light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Eternity seems all too long a term.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So 'tis commuted to one-half. I'm quite</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Prepared, when that expires, to free the worm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And quench the fire." And, civilly retreating,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He left them holding their protracted meeting.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-lifted-finger" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">A Lifted Finger</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>The <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Chronicle</i> did a great public service in whipping ⸻ and his fellow-rascals out of office.</p>
						<cite><abbr>M.H.</abbr> de Young's Newspaper</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>What! <em>you</em> whip rascals?—<em>you</em>, whose gutter blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bears, in its dark, dishonorable flood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enough of prison-birds' prolific germs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To serve a whole eternity of terms?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>You</em>, for whose back the rods and cudgels strove</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere yet the ax had hewn them from the grove?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>You</em>, the De Young whose splendor bright and brave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is phosphorescence from another's grave—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till now unknown, by any chance or luck,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even to the hearts at which you, feebly struck?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>You</em> whip a rascal out of office?—<em>you</em></span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose leadless weapon once ignobly blew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its smoke in six directions to assert</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your lack of appetite for others' dirt?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Practice makes perfect: when for fame you thirst,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then whip a rascal. Whip a cripple first.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or, if for action you're less free than bold—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your palms both brimming with dishonest gold—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Entrust the castigation that you've planned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As once before, to woman's idle hand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So in your spirit shall two pleasures join</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To slake the sacred thirst for blood and coin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blood? Souls have blood, even as the body hath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, spilled, 'twill fertilize the field of wrath.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo! in a purple gorge of yonder hills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where o'er a grave a bird its day-song stills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A woman's blood, through roses ever red,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mutely appeals for vengeance on your head.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slandered to death to serve a sordid end,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She called you murderer and called me friend.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now, mark you, libeler, this course if you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dare to maintain, or rather to renew;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If one short year's immunity has made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You blink again the perils of your trade—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ghastly sequence of the maddened "knave,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hot encounter and the colder grave;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If the grim, dismal lesson you ignore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While yet the stains are fresh upon your floor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And calmly march upon the fatal brink</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With eyes averted to your trail of ink,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Counting unkind the services of those</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who pull, to hold you back, your stupid nose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The day for you to die is not so far,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or, at the least, to live the thing you are!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Pregnant with possibilities of crime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And full of felons for all coming time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your blood's too precious to be lightly spilt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In testimony to a venial guilt.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Live to get whelpage and preserve a name</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No praise can sweeten and no lie unshame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Live to fulfill the vision that I see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down the dim vistas of the time to be:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dream of clattering beaks and burning eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of hungry ravens glooming all the skies;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dream of gleaming teeth and foetid breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of jackals wrangling at the feast of death;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dream of broken necks and swollen tongues—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The whole world's gibbets loaded with De Youngs!</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1881">1881</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="two-delegates" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Two Delegates</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In that fair city by the inland sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where Blaine unhived his Presidential bee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Frank Pixley's meeting with George Gorham sing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Celestial muse, and what events did spring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the encounter of those mighty sons</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of thunder, and of slaughter, and of guns.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Great Gorham first, his yearning tooth to sate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And give him stomach for the day's debate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Entering a restaurant, with eager mien,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Demands an ounce of bacon and a bean.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The trembling waiter, by the statesman's eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Smitten with terror, hastens to comply;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor chairs nor tables can his speed retard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For famine's fixed and horrible regard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He takes for menace. As he shaking flew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo! the portentous Pixley heaved in view!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before him yawned invisible the cell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unheard, behind, the warden's footsteps fell.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thrice in convention rising to his feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He thrice had been thrust back into his seat;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thrice had protested, been reminded thrice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The nation had no need of his advice.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Balked of his will to set the people right,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His soul was gloomy though his hat was white,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So fierce his mien, with provident accord</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The waiters swarmed him, thinking him a lord.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He spurned them, roaring grandly to their chief:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Give me (Fred. Crocker pays) a leg of beef!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His wandering eye's deluminating flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fell upon Gorham and the crisis came!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Pixley scowled and darkness filled the room</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till Gorham's flashing orbs dispelled the gloom.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The patrons of the place, by fear dismayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sprang to the street and left their scores unpaid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, when Jove thunders and his lightnings gleam</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To sour the milk and curdle, too, the cream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And storm-clouds gather on the shadowed hill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ass forsakes his hay, the pig his swill.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hotly the heroes now engaged—their breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came short and hard, as in the throes of death.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They clenched their hands, their weapons brandished high,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cut, stabbed, and hewed, nor uttered any cry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But gnashed their teeth and struggled on! In brief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One ate his bacon, t'other one his beef.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="matter-for-gratitude" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Matter for Gratitude</h3>
					<p>Especially should we be thankful for having escaped the ravages of the yellow scourge by which our neighbors have been so sorely afflicted.</p>
					<cite>Governor Stoneman's Thanksgiving Proclamation.</cite>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Be pleased, O Lord, to take a people's thanks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Thine avenging sword has spared our ranks—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Thou hast parted from our lips the cup</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And forced our neighbors' lips to drink it up.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Father of Mercies, with a heart contrite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We thank Thee that Thou goest south to smite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sparest San Francisco's loins, to crack</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy lash on Hermosillo's bleeding back—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That o'er our homes Thine awful angel spread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His wings in vain, and Guaymas weeps instead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We praise Thee, God, that Yellow Fever here</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His horrid banner has not dared to rear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Consumption's jurisdiction to contest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her dagger deep in every second breast!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Catarrh and Asthma and Congestive Chill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Attest Thy bounty and perform Thy will.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These native messengers obey Thy call—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They summon singly, but they summon all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not, as in Mexico's impested clime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can Yellow Jack commit recurring crime.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We thank Thee that Thou killest all the time.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thy tender mercies, Father, never end:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon all heads Thy blessings still descend,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though their forms vary. Here the sown seeds yield</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Abundant grain that whitens all the field—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There the smit corn stands barren on the plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thrift reaps the straw and Famine gleans in vain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here the fat priest to the contented king</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Points out the contrast and the people sing—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There mothers eat their offspring. Well, at least</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou hast provided offspring for the feast.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An earthquake here rolls harmless through the land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Thou art good because the chimneys stand—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There templed cities sink into the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And damp survivors, howling as they flee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Skip to the hills and hold a celebration</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In honor of Thy wise discrimination.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O God, forgive them all, from Stoneman down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy smile who construe and expound Thy frown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fall with saintly grace upon their knees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To render thanks when Thou dost only sneeze.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="three-kinds-of-a-rogue" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Three Kinds of a Rogue</h3>
				<section id="three-kinds-of-a-rogue-1" epub:type="part">
					<header>
						<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Sharon, ambitious of immortal shame,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Fame's dead-wall daubed with his illustrious name—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Served in the Senate, for our sins, his time,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Each word a folly and each vote a crime;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Law for our governance well skilled to make</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By knowledge gained in study how to break;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet still by the presiding eye ignored,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which only sought him when too loud he snored.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Auspicious thunder!—when he woke to vote</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He stilled his own to cut his country's throat;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That rite performed, fell off again to sleep,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>While statesmen ages dead awoke to weep!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For sedentary service all unfit,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By lying long disqualified to sit,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Wasting below as he decayed aloft,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His seat grown harder as his brain grew soft,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He left the hall he could not bring away,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And grateful millions blessed the happy day!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whate'er contention in that hall is heard,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His sovereign State has still the final word:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For disputatious statesmen when they roar</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Startle the ancient echoes of his snore,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which from their dusty nooks expostulate</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And close with stormy clamor the debate.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To low melodious thunders then they fade;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Their murmuring lullabies all ears invade;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Peace takes the Chair; the portal Silence keeps;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>No motion stirs the dark Lethean deeps—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Washoe has spoken and the Senate sleeps.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="three-kinds-of-a-rogue-2" epub:type="part">
					<header>
						<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Lo! the new Sharon with a new intent,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Making no laws, but keen to circumvent</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The laws of Nature (since he can't repeal)</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That break his failing body on the wheel.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>As Tantalus again and yet again</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The elusive wave endeavors to restrain</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To slake his awful thirst, so Sharon tries</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To purchase happiness that age denies;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Obtains the shadow, but the substance goes,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And hugs the thorn, but cannot keep the rose;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For Dead Sea fruits bids prodigally, eats,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And then, with tardy reformation—cheats.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Alert his faculties as three score years</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And four score vices will permit, he nears—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dicing with Death—the finish of the game,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And curses still his candle's wasting flame,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The narrow circle of whose feeble glow</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dims and diminishes at every throw.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Moments his losses, pleasures are his gains,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which even in his grasp revert to pains.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The joy of grasping them alone remains.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="three-kinds-of-a-rogue-3" epub:type="part">
					<header>
						<p epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</p>
					</header>
					<p>
						<span>Ring up the curtain and the play protract!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Behold our Sharon in his last mad act.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With man long warring, quarreling with God,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He crouches now beneath a woman's rod</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Predestined for his back while yet it lay</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Closed in an acorn which, one luckless day,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He stole, unconscious of its foetal twig,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From the scant garner of a sightless pig.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With bleeding shoulders pitilessly scored,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He bawls more lustily than once he snored.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The sympathetic Comstocks droop to hear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Carson river sheds a viscous tear,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which sturdy tumble-bugs assail amain,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With ready thrift, and urge along the plain.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The jackass rabbit sorrows as he lopes;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The sage-brush glooms along the mountain slopes;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In rising clouds the poignant alkali,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Tearless itself, makes everybody cry.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Washoe canaries on the Geiger Grade</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Subdue the singing of their cavalcade,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And, wiping with their ears the tears unshed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Grieve for their family's unlucky head.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Virginia City intermits her trade</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And well-clad strangers walk her streets unflayed.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Nay, all Nevada ceases work to weep</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the recording angel goes to sleep.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But in his dreams his goose-quill's creaking fount</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Augments the debits in the long account.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And still the continents and oceans ring</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With royal torments of the Silver King!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Incessant bellowings fill all the earth,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Mingled with inextinguishable mirth.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He roars, men laugh, Nevadans weep, beasts howl,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Plash the affrighted fish, and shriek the fowl!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With monstrous din their blended thunders rise,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Peal upon peal, and brawl along the skies,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Startle in hell the Sharons as they groan,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And shake the splendors of the great white throne!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Still roaring outward through the vast profound,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The spreading circles of receding sound</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pursue each other in a failing race</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To the cold confines of eternal space;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>There break and die along that awful shore</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Which God's own eyes have never dared explore—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Dark, fearful, formless, nameless evermore!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Look to the west! Against yon steely sky</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lone Mountain rears its holy cross on high.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>About its base the meek-faced dead are laid</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To share the benediction of its shade.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With crossed white hands, shut eyes and formal feet,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Their nights are innocent, their days discreet.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Sharon, some years, perchance, remain of life—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of vice and greed, vulgarity and strife;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And then—God speed the day if such His will—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You'll lie among the dead you helped to kill,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And be in good society at last,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Your purse unsilvered and your face unbrassed.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="a-man" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Man</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Pennoyer, Governor of Oregon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Casting to South his eye across the bourne</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of his dominion (where the Palmiped,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With leathers 'twixt his toes, paddles his marsh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amphibious) saw a rising cloud of hats,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And heard a faint, far sound of distant cheers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Below the swell of the horizon. "Lo,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cried one, "the President! the President!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All footed webwise then took up the word—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hill tribes and the tribes lacustrine and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The folk riparian and littoral,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cried with one voice: "The President! He comes!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And some there were who flung their headgear up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In emulation of the Southern mob;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While some, more soberly disposed, stood still</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And silently had fits; and others made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such reverent genuflexions as they could,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Having that climate in their bones. Then spake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Court Dunce, humbly, as became him: "Sire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If thou, as heretofore thou hast, wilt deign</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To reap advantage of a fool's advice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By action ordered after nature's way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As in thy people manifest (for still</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stupidity's the only wisdom) thou</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wilt get thee straight unto to the border land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To mark the President's approach with such</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Due, decent courtesy as it shall seem</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We have in custom the best warrant for."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Pennoyer, Governor of Oregon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eyeing the storm of hats which darkened all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Southern sky, and hearing far hurrahs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of an exulting people, answered not.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then some there were who fell upon their knees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And some upon their Governor, and sought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each in his way, by blandishment or force,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To gain his action to their end. "Behold,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They said, "thy brother Governor to South</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Met him even at the gateway of his realm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crook-kneed, magnetic-handed and agrin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Backed like a rainbow—all things done in form</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of due observance and respect. Shall we</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alone of all his servitors refuse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swift welcome to our master and our lord?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Pennoyer, Governor of Oregon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Answered them not, but turned his back to them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And as if speaking to himself, the while</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He started to retire, said: "He be damned!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To that High Place o'er Portland's central block,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the Recording Angel stands to view</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sinning world, nor thinks to move his feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Aside and look below, came flocking up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inferior angels, all aghast, and cried:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Pennoyer, Governor of Oregon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has said, O what an awful word!—too bad</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be by us repeated!" "Yes, I know,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said the superior bird—"I heard it too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And have already booked it. Pray observe."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Splitting the giant tome, whose covers fell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Apart, o'ershadowing to right and left</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Eastern and the Western world, he showed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The newly written entry, black and big,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the credit side of thine account,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pennoyer, Governor of Oregon.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ye-foe-to-cathaye" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Y<sup>e</sup> Foe to Cathaye</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O never an oathe sweares he,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And never a pig-taile jerkes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With a brick-batte he ne lurkes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For to buste y<sup>e</sup> crust, perdie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of y<sup>e</sup> man from over sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A-synging as he werkes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For he knows ful well, y<sup>s</sup> youth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A tricke of exceeding worth:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he plans withouten ruth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A conflagration's birth!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="samuel-shortridge" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Samuel Shortridge</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Like a worn mother he attempts in vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To still the unruly Crier of his brain:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The more he rocks the cradle of his chin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The more uproarious grows the brat within.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="at-a-national-encampment" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">At a "National Encampment"</h3>
				<p>
					<span>You 're grayer than one would have thought you:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The climate you have over there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the East has apparently brought you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Disorders affecting the hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which—pardon me—seems a bit spare.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You'll not take offence at my giving</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Expression to notions like these.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You might have been stronger if living</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Out here in our sanative breeze.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It's unhealthy here for disease.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No, I'm not as plump as a pullet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But that's the old wound, you see.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remember my paunching a bullet?—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And how that it didn't agree</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With—well, honest hardtack for me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Just pass me the wine—I've a helly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And horrible kind of drouth!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When a fellow has that in his belly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which didn't go in at his mouth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He's hotter than all Down South!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Great Scott! what a nasty day <em>that</em> was—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When every galoot in our crack</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Division who didn't lie flat was</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dissuaded from further attack</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By the bullet's felicitous whack.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'Twas there that our major slept under</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some cannon of ours on the crest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till they woke him by stilling their thunder,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he cursed them for breaking his rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And died in the midst of his jest.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That night—it was late in November—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The dead seemed uncommonly chill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the touch; and one chap I remember</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who took it exceedingly ill</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When I dragged myself over his bill.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Well, comrades, I'm off now—good morning.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your talk is as pleasant as pie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, pardon me, one word of warning:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Speak little and seldom, say I.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That's my way.  God bless you.  Good-bye.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="theosophistry" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Theosophistry</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Says Anderson, Theosophist:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Among the many that exist</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In modern halls.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some lived in ancient Egypt's clime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in their childhood saw the prime</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Karnak's walls."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, Anderson, if that is true</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis my conviction, sir, that you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are one of those</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That once resided by the Nile—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Peer to the Sacred Crocodile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Heir to his woes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My judgment is, the Holy Cat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mews through your larynx (and your hat)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">These many years.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through you the Hallowed Onion brings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its melancholy sense of things,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And moves to tears.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In you the Bull Divine again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bellows and paws the dusty plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To nature true.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I challenge not his ancient hate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, lowering my knurly pate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lock horns with you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And though Reincarnation prove</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A creed too stubborn to remove,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And all your school</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Theosophs I cannot scare,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the more earnestly I swear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That you're a fool!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You'll say that this is mere abuse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without, in fraying you, a use.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That's plain to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With only half an eye. Come, now,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be fair, be fair,—consider how</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It eases me.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="azrael" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Azrael</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The moon in the field of the keel-plowed main</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was watching the growing tide;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A luminous peasant was driving his wain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he offered my soul a ride.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But I nourished a sorrow uncommonly tall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And I fixed him fast with mine eye.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"O, peasant," I sang with a dying fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"Go leave me to sing and die."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The water was weltering round my feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As prone on the beach they lay.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I chanted my death-song loud and sweet:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"Kioodle, ioodle, iay!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then I heard the swish of erecting ears</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which caught that enchanting strain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ocean was swollen with storms of tears</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That fell from the shining swain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"O, poet," leapt he to the soaken strand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"That ravishing song would make</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The devil a saint." He held out his hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And solemnly added: "Shake."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We shook. "I crave a victim, you see,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He said—"you came hither to die."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Angel of Death, 'twas he! 'twas he!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the victim he crove was I!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'Twas I, Fred Emerson Brooks, the bard;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he knocked me on the head.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Lord! I thought it exceedingly hard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For I didn't want to be dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"You'll sing no worser for that," said he,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he drove with my soul away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, death-song singers, be warned by me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Kioodle, ioodle, iay!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="competition" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Competition</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Seraphs came to Christ and said: "Behold!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The man, presumptuous and overbold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who boasted that his mercy could excel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thine own, is dead and on his way to Hell."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Gravely the Savior asked: "What did he do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make his impious assertion true?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"He was a Governor, releasing all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The vilest felons ever held in thrall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No other mortal, since the dawn of time.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has ever pardoned such a mass of crime!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Christ smiled benignly on the Seraphim:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Yet I am victor, for I pardon <em>him</em>."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-vision-of-doom" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Vision of Doom</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I stood upon a hill. The setting sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was crimson with a curse and a portent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And scarce his angry ray lit up the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That lay below, whose lurid gloom appeared</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Freaked with a moving mist, which, reeking up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From dim tarns hateful with some horrid ban,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Took shapes forbidden and without a name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gigantic night-birds, rising from the reeds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With cries discordant, startled all the air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bodiless voices babbled in the gloom—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ghosts of blasphemies long ages stilled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shrieks of women, and men's curses. All</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These visible shapes, and sounds no mortal ear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had ever heard, some spiritual sense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Interpreted, though brokenly; for I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was haunted by a consciousness of crime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some giant guilt, but whose I knew not. All</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These things malign, by sight and sound revealed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were sin-begotten; that I knew—no more—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that but dimly, as in dreadful dreams</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sleepy senses babble to the brain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Imperfect witness. As I stood a voice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But whence it came I knew not, cried aloud</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some words to me in a forgotten tongue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet straight I knew me for a ghost forlorn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Returned from the illimited inane.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Again, but in a language that I knew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As in reply to something which in me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had shaped itself a thought, but found no words,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It spake from the dread mystery about:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Immortal shadow of a mortal soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That perished with eternity, attend.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What thou beholdest is as void as thou:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shadow of a poet's dream—himself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As thou, his soul as thine, long dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But not like thine outlasted by its shade.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His dreams alone survive eternity</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As pictures in the unsubstantial void.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Excepting thee and me (and we because</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The poet wove us in his thought) remains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of nature and the universe no part</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor vestige but the poet's dreams. This dread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unspeakable land about thy feet, with all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its desolation and its terrors—lo!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis but a phantom world. So long ago</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That God and all the angels since have died</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That poet lived—yourself long dead—his mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Filled with the light of a prophetic fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And standing by the Western sea, above</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The youngest, fairest city in the world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Named in another tongue than his for one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ensainted, saw its populous domain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Plague-smitten with a nameless shame. For there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Red-handed murder rioted; and there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The people gathered gold, nor cared to loose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The assassin's fingers from the victim's throat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But said, each in his vile pursuit engrossed:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Am I my brother's keeper? Let the Law</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Look to the matter.' But the Law did not.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there, O pitiful! the babe was slain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within its mother's breast and the same grave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Held babe and mother; and the people smiled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still gathering gold, and said: 'The Law, the Law,'</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then the great poet, touched upon the lips</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a live coal from Truth's high altar, raised</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His arms to heaven and sang a song of doom—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sang of the time to be, when God should lean</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Indignant from the Throne and lift His hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that foul city be no more!—a tale,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dream, a desolation and a curse!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No vestige of its glory should survive</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In fact or memory: its people dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its site forgotten, and its very name</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Disputed."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">"Was the prophecy fulfilled?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The sullen disc of the declining sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was crimson with a curse and a portent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And scarce his angry ray lit up the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That lay below, whose lurid gloom appeared</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Freaked with a moving mist, which, reeking up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From dim tarns hateful with a horrid ban,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Took shapes forbidden and without a name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gigantic night-birds, rising from the reeds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With cries discordant, startled all the air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bodiless voices babbled in the gloom.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But not to me came any voice again;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, covering my face with thin, dead hands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wept, and woke, and cried aloud to God!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="religious-progress" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Religious Progress</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>Every religion is important. When men rise above existing conditions a new religion comes in, and it is better than the old one.</p>
						<cite>Professor Howison</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Professor dear, I think it queer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That all these good religions</span>
					<br/>
					<span>('Twixt you and me, some two or three</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are schemes for plucking pigeons)—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I mean 'tis strange that every change</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our poor minds to unfetter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Entails a new religion—true</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As t' other one, and better.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From each in turn the truth we learn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That wood or flesh or spirit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May justly boast it rules the roast</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Until we cease to fear it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, once upon a time long gone</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Man worshipped Cat and Lizard:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His God he'd find in any kind</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of beast, from a to izzard.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When risen above his early love</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of dirt and blood and slumber,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He pulled down these vain deities,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And made one out of lumber.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Far better that than even a cat,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Howisons all shouted;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"When God is wood religion's good!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But one poor cynic doubted.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"A timber God—that's very odd!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Said Progress, and invented</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The simple plan to worship Man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who, kindly soul! consented.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But soon our eye we lift asky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our vows all unregarded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And find (at least so says the priest)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Truth—and Man's discarded.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Along our line of march recline</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dead gods devoid of feeling;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thick about each sun-cracked lout</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dried Howisons are kneeling.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-fall-of-miss-larkin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Fall of Miss Larkin</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Hear me sing of Sally Larkin who, I'd have you understand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Played accordions as well as any lady in the land;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I've often heard it stated that her fingering was such</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Professor Schweinenhauer was enchanted with her touch;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that beasts were so affected when her apparatus rang</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That they dropped upon their haunches and deliriously sang.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This I know from testimony, though a critic, I opine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Needs an ear that is dissimilar in some respects to mine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She could sing, too, like a jaybird, and they say all eyes were wet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Sally and the ranch-dog were performing a duet—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which I take it is a song that has to be so loudly sung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As to overtax the strength of any single human lung.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That, at least, would seem to follow from the tale I have to tell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which (I've told you how she flourished) is how Sally Larkin fell.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One day there came to visit Sally's dad as sleek and smart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A chap as ever wandered there from any foreign part.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though his gentle birth and breeding he did not at all obtrude</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was somehow whispered round he was a simon-pure Dude.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Howsoe'er that may have been, it was conspicuous to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he <em>was</em> a real Gent of an uncommon high degree.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Sally cast her tender and affectionate regards</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On this exquisite creation was, of course, upon the cards;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But he didn't seem to notice, and was variously blind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To her many charms of person and the merits of her mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And preferred, I grieve to say it, to play poker with her dad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And acted in a manner that in general was bad.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One evening—'twas in summer—she was holding in her lap</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her accordion, and near her stood that melancholy chap,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leaning up against a pillar with his lip in grog imbrued,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thinking, maybe, of that ancient land in which he was a Dude.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then Sally, who was melancholy too, began to hum</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And elongate the accordion with a preluding thumb.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then sighs of amorosity from Sally <abbr>L.</abbr> exhaled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And her music apparatus sympathetically wailed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"In the gloaming, O my darling!" rose that wild impassioned strain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And her eyes were fixed on his with an intensity of pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till the ranch-dog from his kennel at the postern gate came round,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And going into session strove to magnify the sound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He lifted up his spirit till the gloaming rang and rang</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the song that to <em>his</em> darling he impetuously sang!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then that musing youth, recalling all his soul from other scenes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where his fathers all were Dudes and his mothers all Dudines,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From his lips removed the beaker and politely, o'er the grog,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said: "Miss Larkin, please be quiet: you will interrupt the dog."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-rendezvous" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Rendezvous</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Nightly I put up this humble petition:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"Forgive me, O Father of Glories,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My sins of commission, my sins of omission,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My sins of the Mission Dolores."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="yorick" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Yorick</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Hard by an excavated street one sat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In solitary session on the sand;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ever and anon he spake and spat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And spake again—a yellow skull in hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To which that retrospective Pioneer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Addressed the few remarks that follow here:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Who are you? Did you come 'der blains agross,'</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or 'Horn aroundt'? In days o' '49</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did them thar eye-holes see the Southern Cross</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From the Antarctic Sea git up an' shine?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or did you drive a bull team 'all the way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Pike,' with Mr. Joseph Bowers?—say!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Was you in Frisco when the water came</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Up to Montgum'ry street? and do you mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The time when Peters run the faro game—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Jim Peters from old Mississip—behind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wells Fargo's, where he subsequent was bust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By Sandy, as regards both bank and crust?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I wonder was you here when Casey shot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">James King o' William? And did you attend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The neck-tie dance ensuin'? <i>I</i> did not,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But j'ined the rush to Go Creek with my friend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ed'ard McGowan; for we was resolved</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In sech diversions not to be involved.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Maybe I knowed you; seems to me I've seed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your face afore. I don't forget a face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But names I disremember—I'm that breed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of owls. I'm talking some'at into space</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An' maybe my remarks is too derned free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seein' yer name is unbeknown to me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Ther' was a time, I reckon, when I knowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nigh onto every dern galoot in town.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That was as late as '50. Now she's growed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Surprisin'! Yes, me an' my pardner, Brown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was wide acquainted. If ther' was a cuss</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We didn't know, the cause was—he knowed us.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Maybe you had that claim adjoinin' mine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Up thar in Calaveras. Was it you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To which Long Mary took a mighty shine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">An' throwed squar' off on Jake the Kangaroo?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I guess if she could see ye now she'd take</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her chance o' happiness along o' Jake.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"You ain't so purty now as you was then:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Yer eyes is nothin' but two prospect holes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An' women which are hitched to better men</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Would hardly for sech glances damn their souls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As Lengthie did. By God! I <em>hope</em> it's you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For" <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">kicks the skull</i> "I'm Jake the Kangaroo."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="stanfords-welcome" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Stanford's Welcome</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"O son of mine age, these eyes lose their fire:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be eyes, I pray, to thy dying sire."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"O father, fear not, for mine eyes are bright—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I read through a millstone at dead of night."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"My son, O tell me, who are those men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rushing, like pigs to the feeding-pen?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Welcomers they of a statesman grand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They'll shake, and then they will pocket, his hand."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Sagacious youth with the wondrous eye.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They seem to throw up their headgear. Why?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Because they've thrown up their hands until, O,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They're so tired!—and dinners they've none to throw."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"My son, my son, though dull are mine ears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hear a great sound like the people's cheers."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"He's thanking them, father, with tears in his eyes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For giving him lately that fine surprise."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"My memory fails as I near mine end;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How did they astonish their grateful friend?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"By letting him buy, like apples or oats.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With that which has made him so good, the votes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which make him so wise and grand and great.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now, father, please die, for 'tis growing late."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="surprised" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Surprised</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"O son of mine age, these eyes lose their fire:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be eyes, I pray, to thy dying sire."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"O father, fear not, for mine eyes are bright—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I read through a millstone at dead of night."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"My son, O tell me, who are those men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rushing like pigs to the feeding-pen?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Welcomers they of a statesman grand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They'll shake, and then they will pocket; his hand."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Sagacious youth, with the wondrous eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They seem to throw up their headgear. Why?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Because they've thrown up their hands until, O,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They're so tired!—and dinners they've none to throw."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"My son, my son, though dull are mine ears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hear a great sound like the people's cheers."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"He's thanking them, father, with tears in his eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For giving him lately that fine surprise."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"My memory fails as I near mine end;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How <i>did</i> they astonish their grateful friend?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"By letting him buy, like apples or oats,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With that which has made him so good, the votes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which make him so wise and grand and great.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now, father, please die, for 'tis growing late."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="posteritys-award" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Posterity's Award</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I'd long been dead, but I returned to earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some small affairs posterity was making</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A mess of, and I came to see that worth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Received its dues. I'd hardly finished waking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The grave-mould still upon me, when my eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perceived a statue standing straight and high.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'Twas a colossal figure—bronze and gold—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nobly designed, in attitude commanding.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A toga from its shoulders, fold on fold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fell to the pedestal on which 'twas standing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nobility it had and splendid grace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all it should have had—except a face!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It showed no features: not a trace nor sign</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of any eyes or nose could be detected—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the smooth oval of its front no line</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where sites for mouths are commonly selected.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All blank and blind its faulty head it reared.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let this be said: 'twas generously eared.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Seeing these things, I straight began to guess</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For whom this mighty image was intended.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"The head," I cried, "is Upton's, and the dress</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is Parson Bartlett's own." True, <i>his</i> cloak ended</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flush with his lowest vertebra, but no</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sane sculptor ever made a toga so.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then on the pedestal these words I read:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"<em>Erected Eighteen Hundred Ninety-seven</em>"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Saint Christofer! how fast the time had sped!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of course it naturally does in Heaven)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"<em>To</em> ⸻" (here a blank space for the name began)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"<em>The Nineteenth Century's Great Foremost Man</em>!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"<em>Completed</em>" the inscription ended, "<em>in</em></span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1"><em>The Year Three Thousand</em>"—which was just arriving.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By Jove! thought I, 'twould make the founders grin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To learn whose fame so long has been surviving—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To read the name posterity will place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In that blank void, and view the finished face.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Even as I gazed, the year Three Thousand came,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And then by acclamation all the people</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Decreed whose was our century's best fame;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Then scaffolded the statue like a steeple,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make the likeness; and the name was sunk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deep in the pedestal's metallic trunk.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Whose was it? Gentle reader, pray excuse</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The seeming rudeness, but I can't consent to</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be so forehanded with important news.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">'Twas neither yours nor mine—let that content you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If not, the name I must surrender, which,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon a dead man's word, was George K. Fitch!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-art-critic" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Art Critic</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Ira P. Rankin, you've a nasal name—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'll sound it through "the speaking-trump of fame,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wondering nations, hearing from afar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The brazen twang of its resounding jar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall say: "These bards are an uncommon class—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They blow their noses with a tube of brass!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rankin! ye gods! if Influenza pick</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our names at christening, and such names stick,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let's all be born when summer suns withstand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her prevalence and chase her from the land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And healing breezes generously help</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To shield from death each ailing human whelp!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"What's in a name?" There's much at least in yours</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the pained ear unwillingly endures,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And much to make the suffering soul, I fear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Envy the lesser anguish of the ear.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So you object to Cytherea! Do,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The picture was not painted, sir, for you!</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i>Your</i> mind to gratify and taste address,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The masking dove had been a dove the less.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Provincial censor! all untaught in art,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With mind indecent and indecent heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do you not know—nay, why should I explain?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Instruction, argument alike were vain—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'll show you reasons when you show me brain.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-spirit-of-a-sponge" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Spirit of a Sponge</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I dreamed one night that Stephen Massett died,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And for admission up at Heaven applied.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Who are you?" asked St. Peter. Massett said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Jeems Pipes, of Pipesville." Peter bowed his head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Opened the gates and said: "I'm glad to know you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wish we'd something better, sir, to show you."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Don't mention it," said Stephen, looking bland,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And was about to enter, hat in hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When from a cloud below such fumes arose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As tickled tenderly his conscious nose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He paused, replaced his hat upon his head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Turned back and to the saintly warden said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O'er his already sprouting wings: "I swear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I smell some broiling going on down there!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So Massett's paunch, attracted by the smell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Followed his nose and found a place in Hell.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ornithanthropos" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Ornithanthropos</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Let John P. Irish rise!" the edict rang</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As when Creation into being sprang!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nature, not clearly understanding, tried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make a bird that on the air could ride.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But naught could baffle the creative plan—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Despite her efforts 'twas almost a man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet he had risen—to the bird a twin—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had she but fixed a wing upon his chin.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-e-s-salomon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">To E.S. Salomon</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>Who in a Memorial Day oration protested bitterly against decorating the graves of Confederate dead.</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>What! Salomon! such words from you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who call yourself a soldier? Well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Southern brother where he fell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slept all your base oration through.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Alike to him—he cannot know</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your praise or blame: as little harm</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your tongue can do him as your arm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A quarter-century ago.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The brave respect the brave. The brave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Respect the dead; but <i>you</i>—you draw</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That ancient blade, the ass's jaw,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shake it o'er a hero's grave.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Are you not he who makes to-day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A merchandise of old renown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which he persuades this easy town</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He won in battle far away?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, those the fallen who revile</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Have ne'er before the living stood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And stoutly made their battle good</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And greeted danger with a smile.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What if the dead whom still you hate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Were wrong? Are you so surely right?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We know the issue of the fight—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sword is but an advocate.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Men live and die, and other men</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Arise with knowledges diverse:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What seemed a blessing seems a curse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Now is still at odds with Then.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The years go on, the old comes back</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To mock the new—beneath the sun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is <i>nothing</i> new; ideas run</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Recurrent in an endless track.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What most we censure, men as wise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Have reverently practiced; nor</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Will future wisdom fail to war</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On principles we dearly prize.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We do not know—we can but deem,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he is loyalest and best</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who takes the light full on his breast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And follows it throughout the dream.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The broken light, the shadows wide—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Behold the battle-field displayed!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">God save the vanquished from the blade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The victor from the victor's pride!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If, Salomon, the blessed dew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That falls upon the Blue and Gray</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is powerless to wash away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sin of differing from you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Remember how the flood of years</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Has rolled across the erring slain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Remember, too, the cleansing rain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of widows' and of orphans' tears.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The dead are dead—let that atone:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And though with equal hand we strew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The blooms on saint and sinner too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet God will know to choose his own.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The wretch, whate'er his life and lot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who does not love the harmless dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With all his heart and all his head—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May God forgive him—<i>I</i> shall not.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When, Salomon, you come to quaff</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Darker Cup with meeker face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I, loving you at last, shall trace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon your tomb this epitaph:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Draw near, ye generous and brave—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Kneel round this monument and weep:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It covers one who tried to keep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A flower from a dead man's grave."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="dennis-kearney" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Dennis Kearney</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Your influence, my friend, has gathered head—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To east and west its tides encroaching spread.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There'll be, on all God's foot-stool, when they meet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No clean spot left for God to set His feet.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="finis-aeternitatis" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Finis Ӕternitatis</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Strolling at sunset in my native land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With fruits and flowers thick on either hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I crossed a Shadow flung athwart my way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Emerging on a waste of rock and sand.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"The apples all are gone from here," I said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"The roses perished and their spirits fled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I will go back." A voice cried out: "The man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is risen who eternally was dead!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I turned and saw an angel standing there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Newly descended from the heights of air.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Sweet-eyed compassion filled his face, his hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A naked sword and golden trumpet bare.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Nay, 'twas not death, the shadow that I crossed,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I said. "Its chill was but a touch of frost.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">It made me gasp, but quickly I came through,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With breath recovered ere it scarce was lost."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'Twas the same land! Remembered mountains thrust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grayed heads asky, and every dragging gust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">In ashen valleys where my sons had reaped,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stirred in familiar river-beds the dust.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Some heights, where once the traveler was shown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The youngest and the proudest city known,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Lifted smooth ridges in the steely light—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bleak, desolate acclivities of stone.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where I had worshiped at my father's tomb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within a massive temple's awful gloom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A jackal slunk along the naked rock,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Affrighted by some prescience of doom.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Man's vestiges were nowhere to be found,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save one brass mausoleum on a mound</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">(I knew it well) spared by the artist Time</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To emphasize the desolation round.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Into the stagnant sea the sullen sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sank behind bars of crimson, one by one.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">"Eternity's at hand!" I cried aloud.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Eternity," the angel said, "is done.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For man is ages dead in every zone;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The angels all are dead but I alone;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The devils, too, are cold enough at last,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And God lies dead before the great white throne!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'Tis foreordained that I bestride the shore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When all are gone (as Gabriel did before,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">When I had throttled the last man alive)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And swear Eternity shall be no more."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"O Azrael—O Prince of Death, declare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why conquered I the grave?" I cried. "What rare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Conspicuous virtues won this boon for me?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"You've been revived," he said, "to hear me swear."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Then let me creep again beneath the grass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And knock thou at yon pompous tomb of brass.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">If ears are what you want, Charles Crocker's there—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Betwixt the greatest ears, the greatest ass."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He rapped, and while the hollow echoes rang,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out at the door a curst hyena sprang</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And fled! Said Azrael: "His soul's escaped,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And closed the brazen portal with a bang.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-veteran" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Veteran</h3>
				<p>
					<span>John Jackson, once a soldier bold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Hath still a martial feeling;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, when he sees a foe, behold!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">He charges him—with stealing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He cares not how much ground to-day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">He gives for men to doubt him;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He's used to giving ground, they say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Who lately fought with—out him.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When, for the battle to be won,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">His gallantry was needed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They say each time a loaded gun</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Went off—so, likewise, he did.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And when discharged (for war's a sport</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">So hot he had to leave it)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He made a very loud report,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">But no one did believe it.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-exhibit" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An "Exhibit"</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Goldenson hanged! Well, Heaven forbid</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That I should smile above him:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though truth to tell, I never did</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Exactly love him.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It can't be wrong, though, to rejoice</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That his unpleasing capers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are ended. Silent is his voice</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In all the papers.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No longer he's a show: no more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Bear-like, his den he's walking.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No longer can he hold the floor</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When I'd be talking.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The laws that govern jails are bad</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If such displays are lawful.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fate of the assassin's sad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But ours is awful!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What! shall a wretch condemned to die</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In shame upon the gibbet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be set before the public eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As an "exhibit"?—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His looks, his actions noted down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His words if light or solemn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all this hawked about the town—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So much a column?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The press, of course, will publish news</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">However it may get it;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But blast the sheriff who'll abuse</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His powers to let it!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, this is not ingratitude;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I'm no reporter, truly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor yet an editor. I'm rude</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Because unruly—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Because I burn with shame and rage</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beyond my power of telling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see assassins in a cage</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And keepers yelling.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Walk up! Walk up!" the showman cries:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"Observe the lion's poses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His stormy mane, his glooming eyes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His—hold your noses!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>How long, O Lord, shall Law and Right</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Be mocked for gain or glory,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And angels weep as they recite</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The shameful story?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-transmigrations-of-a-soul" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Transmigrations of a Soul</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What! Pixley, must I hear you call the roll</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of all the vices that infest your soul?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was't not enough that lately you did bawl</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your money-worship in the ears of all?[A]</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still must you crack your brazen cheek to tell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That though a miser you're a sot as well?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still must I hear how low your taste has sunk—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From getting money down to getting drunk?[B]</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Who worships money, damning all beside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shows his callous knees with pious pride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Speaks with half-knowledge, for no man e'er scorns</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His own possessions, be they coins or corns.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You've money, neighbor; had you gentle birth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You'd know, as now you never can, its worth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You've money; learning is beyond your scope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deaf to your envy, stubborn to your hope.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But if upon your undeserving head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Science and letters had their glory shed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If in the cavern of your skull the light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of knowledge shone where now eternal night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Breeds the blind, poddy, vapor-fatted naughts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of cerebration that you think are thoughts—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Black bats in cold and dismal corners hung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That squeak and gibber when you move your tongue—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You would not write, in Avarice's defense,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A senseless eulogy on lack of sense,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor show your eagerness to sacrifice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All noble virtues to one loathsome vice.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You've money; if you'd manners too you'd shame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To boast your weakness or your baseness name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Appraise the things you have, but measure not</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The things denied to your unhappy lot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He values manners lighter than a cork</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who combs his beard at table with a fork.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hare to seek sin and tortoise to forsake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The laws of taste condemn you to the stake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To expiate, where all the world may see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The crime of growing old disgracefully.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Religion, learning, birth and manners, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All that distinguishes a man from you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pray damn at will: all shining virtues gain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An added luster from a rogue's disdain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But spare the young that proselyting sin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A toper's apotheosis of gin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If not our young, at least our pigs may claim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exemption from the spectacle of shame!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Are you not he who lately out of shape</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blew a brass trumpet to denounce the grape?—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who led the brave teetotalers afield</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And slew your leader underneath your shield?—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swore that no man should drink unless he flung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Himself across your body at the bung?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who vowed if you'd the power you would fine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Son of God for making water wine?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All trails to odium you tread and boast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yourself enamored of the dirtiest most.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One day to be a miser you aspire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The next to wallow drunken in the mire;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The third, lo! you're a meritorious liar![C]</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pray, in the catalogue of all your graces,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have theft and cowardice no honored places?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yield thee, great Satan—here's a rival name</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With all thy vices and but half thy shame!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quick to the letter of the precept, quick</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the example of the elder Nick;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With as great talent as was e'er applied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fool a teacher and to fog a guide;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With slack allegiance and boundless greed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To paunch the profit of a traitor deed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He aims to make thy glory all his own,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And crowd his master from the infernal throne!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="indictment-on-evidence" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Indictment on Evidence</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Bruce Douglas, nephew to a Scottish Earl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sat in the City Prison, low in heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And spirits. Round him lay the forms of men—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men of the people, of ignoble birth—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prone or supine in sleep; but sleep and he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were out: the Douglas was too drunk for sleep.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so he sat and moaned; and still his moan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had all the cadences and stops of song—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Recurrent swells and measured silences</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which sought the ear as ocean's billows roll.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At even spaces and with matching speed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One after one ashore. Wherefore uprose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An old gray constable who in the morn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And blossom of his life had courted fame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As horse-reporter for a public print,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so was skilled in letters, and he spake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There to the sergeant, saying: "Surely, now,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The man's a poet. In his moan I hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pulsing and the passion of the sea—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hear the far beating of the waterfall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Throbbing of noon-day insects in the grass—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All rhythmic movements of the universe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which poets echo in their thought and speech,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even in their inarticulate complaints</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of pain. My life I'll hazard that the man's</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A bard disguised to look a gentleman."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, bringing his effects, which had till then</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lain unconsidered—from his pockets plucked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tossed aside—all curiously they</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Explored the papers. Odes and odes . there were,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And every ode in praise of some fair scene</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a fair land ; and the fair land was this</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our California. From the snowy peaks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That glitter in the skies of Siskiyou,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down to the golden margin where the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slips underneath the San Diegan bay;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And from the dim Sierra, far across</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To where old Ocean bears upon his breast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Mongol horde returning to its own,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its native land and its dear household gods,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bruce Douglas, nephew of a Scottish Earl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had sung the beauty of the Golden State!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So then the Clerk, splitting the Book of Doom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Charged him therein with murder, arson, rape,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Theft, libel, mayhem and intent to leave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The State and so defraud his creditors—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With vagrancy, extortion and assault</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Felonious, obtaining cash by false</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pretenses—with infanticide—even him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bruce Douglas, nephew of a Scottish Earl.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-an-aspirant" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To an Aspirant</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What! you a Senator?—you, Mike de Young?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still reeking of the gutter whence you sprung?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sir, if all Senators were such as you—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their hands so slender and so crimson too</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Shaped to the pocket for commercial work,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For literary, fitted to the dirk)—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So black their hearts, so lily-white their livers—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The toga's touch would give a man the shivers.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="at-the-white-house" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">At the White House</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Among the notables one day that came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see the President was one whose name</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was known from Porto Rico to Luzon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Although it wasn't Smith nor even John.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Renowned in field and council too, for he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had tilled the soil and been a school trustee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Occasionally, just to pass the time.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He worked at patriotism and scowled at crime;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Went up and down the land denouncing those</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who loved him little as the country's foes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Predicted famine when they scorned his story,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And for the ensuing harvest claimed the glory.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His name indeed was famous, but because</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My memory's weak I know not what it was.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The President he came that day to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was as illustrious in his way as he.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His name a household word—that is to say</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men damned him roundly to begin the day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deplored him in the fireside's rosy light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And grunted disesteem throughout the night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not all men—some, the sons of pious mothers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prayed for him daily as upon him others.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sleek, snug, self-righteous, cunning as a rat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A fish in fervor and in faith a cat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Obscure by nature, he had ne'er been great</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If Fortune had not kicked him into state.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His name? Go ask Posterity, not me—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From words opprobrious my page is free.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So they were married—no I mean they met;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For aught I know they are in session yet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There in the White House, for each swore the place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Belonged to him by God's abounding grace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, O, may He take measures to prevent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If both at once they would be President.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="tidings-of-good" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Tidings of Good</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Old Nick from his place of last resort</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Came up and looked the world over.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He saw how the grass of the good was short</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the wicked lived in clover.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And he gravely said: "This is all, all wrong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And never by me intended.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If to me the power should ever belong</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I shall have this thing amended."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He looked so solemn and good and wise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As he made this observation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the men who heard him believed their eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Instead of his reputation.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So they bruited the matter about, and each</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Reported the words as nearly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As memory served—with additional speech</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To bring out the meaning clearly.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The consequence was that none understood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the wildest rumors started</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of something intended to help the good</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And injure the evil-hearted.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then Robert Morrow was seen to smile</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With a bright and lively joyance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"A man," said he, "that is free from guile</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Will now be free from annoyance.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"The Featherstones doubtless will now increase</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And multiply like the rabbits,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While jailers, deputy sheriffs, police,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And writers will form good habits.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"The widows more easily robbed will be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And no juror will ever heed 'em,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But open his purse to my eloquent plea</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For security, gain, or freedom."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When Benson heard of the luck of the good</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(He was eating his dinner) he muttered:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"It cannot help <i>me</i>, for 'tis understood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My bread is already buttered.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"My plats of surveys are all false, they say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But that cannot greatly matter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To me, for I'll tell the jurors that they</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">May lick, if they please, my platter."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-actor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Actor</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Some one ('tis hardly new) has oddly said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The color of a trumpet's blare is red;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Joseph Emmett thinks the crimson shame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On woman's cheek a trumpet-note of fame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The more the red storm rises round her nose—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The more her eyes averted seek her toes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He fancies all the louder he can hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tube resounding in his spacious ear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, all his varied talents to exert,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Darkens his dullness to display his dirt.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when the gallery's indecent crowd,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gentlemen below, with hisses loud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In hot contention (these his art to crown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And those his naked nastiness to drown)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Make such a din that cheeks erewhile aflame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grow white and in their fear forget their shame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With impudence imperial, sublime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unmoved, the patient actor bides his time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till storm and counter-storm are both allayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like donkeys, each by t'other one outbrayed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When all the place is silent as a mouse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One slow, suggestive gesture clears the house!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="famines-realm" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Famine's Realm</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To him in whom the love of Nature has</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Imperfectly supplanted the desire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dread necessity of food, your shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fair Oakland, is a terror. Over all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your sunny level, from Tamaletown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To where the Pestuary's fragrant slime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With dead dogs studded, bears its ailing fleet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Broods the still menace of starvation. Bones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of men and women bleach along the ways</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pampered vultures sleep upon the trees.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is a land of death, and Famine there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Holds sovereignty; though some there be her sway</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who challenge, and intrenched in larders live,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drawing their sustentation from abroad.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But woe to him, the stranger! He shall die</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As die the early righteous in the bud</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And promise of their prime. He, venturesome</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To penetrate the wilds rectangular</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of grass-grown ways luxuriant of blooms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Frequented of the bee and of the blithe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bold squirrel, strays with heedless feet afar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From human habitation and is lost</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In mid-Broadway. There hunger seizes him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And (careless man! deeming God's providence</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Extends so far) he has not wherewithal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To bate its urgency. Then, lo! appears</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A mealery—a restaurant—a place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where poison battles famine, and the two,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like fish-hawks warring in the upper sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For that which one has taken from the deep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Manage between them to dispatch the prey.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He enters and leaves hope behind. There ends</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His history. Anon his bones, clean-picked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By buzzards (with the bones himself had picked,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Incautious) line the highway. O, my friends,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of all felonious and deadlywise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Devices of the Enemy of Souls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Planted along the ways of life to snare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Man's mortal and immortal part alike,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Oakland restaurant is chief. It lives</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That man may die. It flourishes that life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May wither. Its foundation stones repose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On human hearts and hopes. I've seen in it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crabs stewed in milk and salad offered up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With dressing so unholily compound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That it included flour and sugar! Yea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I've eaten dog there!—dog, as I'm a man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dog seethed in sewage of the town! No more—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy hand, Dyspepsia, assumes the pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And scrawls a tortured "Finis" on the page.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-mackaiad" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Mackaiad</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Mackay's hot wrath to Bonynge, direful spring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of blows unnumbered, heavenly goddess, sing—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That wrath which hurled to Hellman's office floor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two heroes, mutually smeared with gore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose hair in handfuls marked the dire debate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And riven coat-tails testified their hate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing, muse, what first their indignation fired,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What words augmented it, by whom inspired.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>First, the great Bonynge comes upon the scene</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And asks the favor of the British Queen.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Suppliant he stands and urges all his claim:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His wealth, his portly person and his name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His habitation in the setting sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As child of nature; and his suit he won.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No more the Sovereign, wearied with his plea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From slumber's chain her faculties can free.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Low and more low the royal eyelids creep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She gives the assenting nod and falls asleep.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Straightway the Bonynges all invade the Court</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And telegraph the news to every port.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath the seas, red-hot, the tidings fly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cables crinkle and the fishes fry!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The world, awaking like a startled bat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exclaims: "A Bonynge? What the devil's that?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mackay, meanwhile, to envy all attent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Untaught to spare, unable to relent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Walks in our town on needles and on pins,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in a mean, revengeful spirit—grins!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sing, muse, what next to break the peace occurred—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What act uncivil, what unfriendly word?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The god of Bosh ascending from his pool,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where since creation he has played the fool,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clove the blue slush, as other gods the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, waiting but a moment's space to dry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Touched Bonynge with his finger-tip. "O son,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He said, "alike of nature and a gun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knowest not Mackay's insufferable sin?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hast thou not heard that he doth stand and grin?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arise! assert thy manhood, and attest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The uncommercial spirit in thy breast.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Avenge thine honor, for by Jove I swear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou shalt not else be my peculiar care!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He spake, and ere his worshiper could kneel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had dived into his slush pool, head and heel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Full of the god and to revenges nerved,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And conscious of a will that never swerved,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bonynge set sail: the world beyond the wave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As gladly took him as the other gave.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>New York received him, but a shudder ran</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through all the western coast, which knew the man;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And science said that the seismic action</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was owing to an asteroid's impaction.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O goddess, sing what Bonynge next essayed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did he unscabbard the avenging blade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The long spear brandish and porrect the shield,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Havoc the town and devastate the field?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His sacred thirst for blood did he allay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By halving the unfortunate Mackay?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Small were the profit and the joy to him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hew a base-born person, limb from limb.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let vulgar souls to low revenge incline,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That of diviner spirits is divine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bonynge at noonday stood in public places</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And (with regard to the Mackays) made faces!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before those formidable frowns and scowls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dogs fled, tail-tucked, with affrighted howls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And horses, terrified, with flying feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O'erthrew the apple-stands along the street,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Involving the metropolis in vast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Financial ruin! Man himself, aghast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Retreated east and west and north and south</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before the menace of that twisted mouth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till Jove, in answer to their prayers, sent Night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To veil the dreadful visage from their sight!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Such were the causes of the horrid strife—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mother-wrongs which nourished it to life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, for a quill from an archangel's wing!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, for a voice that's adequate to sing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The splendor and the terror of the fray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The scattered hair, the coat-tails all astray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The parted collars and the gouts of gore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reeking and smoking on the banker's floor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The interlocking limbs, embraces dire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Revolving bodies and deranged attire!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Vain, vain the trial: 'tis vouchsafed to none</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To sing two millionaires rolled into one!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My hand and pen their offices refuse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hoarse and hoarser grows the weary muse.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alone remains, to tell of the event,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Abandoned, lost and variously rent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Bonynge nethermost habiliment.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-song-in-praise" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Song in Praise</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Hail, blessed Blunder! golden idol, hail!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clay-footed deity of all who fail.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Celestial image, let thy glory shine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy feet concealing, but a lamp to mine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let me, at seasons opportune and fit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By turns adore thee and by turns commit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In thy high service let me ever be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Yet never serve thee as my critics me)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Happy and fallible, content to feel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I blunder chiefly when to thee I kneel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But best felicity is his thy praise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who utters unaware in works and ways—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who <i>laborare est orare</i> proves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And feels thy suasion wheresoe'er he moves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Serving thy purpose, not thine altar, still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And working, for he thinks it his, thy will.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If such a life with blessings be not fraught,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I envy Peter Robertson for naught.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-poets-father" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Poet's Father</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Welcker, I'm told, can boast a father great</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And honored in the service of the State.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Public Instruction all his mind employs—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He guides its methods and its wage enjoys.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prime Pedagogue, imperious and grand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He waves his ferule o'er a studious land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where humming youth, intent upon the page,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thirsting for knowledge with a noble rage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drink dry the whole Pierian spring and ask</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To slake their fervor at his private flask.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arrested by the terror of his frown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The vaulting spit-ball drops untimely down;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fly impaled on the tormenting pin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stills in his awful glance its dizzy din;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath that stern regard the chewing-gum</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which writhed and squeaked between the teeth is dumb;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Obedient to his will the dunce-cap flies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To perch upon the brows of the unwise;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The supple switch forsakes the parent wood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To settle where 'twill do the greatest good,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Puissant still, as when of old it strove</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With Solomon for spitting on the stove</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Learned Professor, variously great,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Guide, guardian, instructor of the State—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quick to discern and zealous to correct</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The faults which mar the public intellect</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From where of Siskiyou the northern bound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is frozen eternal to the sunless ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To where in San Diego's torrid clime</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The swarthy Greaser swelters in his grime—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath your stupid nose can you not see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dunce whom once you dandled on your knee?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O mighty master of a thousand schools,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stop teaching wisdom, or stop breeding fools.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-coward" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Coward</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When Pickering, distressed by an "attack,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has the strange insolence to answer back</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He hides behind a name that is a lie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And out of shadow falters his reply.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God knows him, though—identified alike</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By hardihood to rise and fear to strike,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fitly to rebuke his sins decrees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That, hide from others with what care he please,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Night sha'n't be black enough nor earth so wide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That from himself himself can ever hide!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hard fate indeed to feel at every breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His burden of identity till death!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No moment's respite from the immortal load,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To think himself a serpent or a toad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or dream, with a divine, ecstatic glow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He's long been dead and canonized a crow!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-my-liars" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To My Liars</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Attend, mine enemies of all degrees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From sandlot orators and sandlot fleas</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fallen gentlemen and rising louts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who babble slander at your drinking bouts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, filled with unfamiliar wine, begin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lies drowned, ere born, in more congenial gin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But most attend, ye persons of the press</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who live (though why, yourselves alone can guess)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In hope deferred, ambitious still to shine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By hating me at half a cent a line—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like drones among the bees of brighter wing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sunless to shine and impotent to sting.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To estimate in easy verse I'll try</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The controversial value of a lie.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So lend your ears—God knows you have enough!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I mean to teach, and if I can't I'll cuff.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A lie is wicked, so the priests declare;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that to us is neither here nor there.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis worse than wicked, it is vulgar too;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i>N'importe</i>—with that we've nothing here to do.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If 'twere artistic I would lie till death,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shape a falsehood with my latest breath.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Parrhasius never more did pity lack,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The while his model writhed upon the rack,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than I for my collaborator's pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who, stabbed with fibs again and yet again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would vainly seek to move my stubborn heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If slander were, and wit were not, an art.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ill-bred and illiterate can lie</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As fast as you, and faster far than I.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall I compete, then, in a strife accurst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where Allen Forman is an easy first,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And where the second prize is rightly flung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Charley Shortridge or to Mike de Young?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In mental combat but a single end</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inspires the formidable to contend.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not by the raw recruit's ambition fired,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By whom foul blows, though harmless, are admired;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not by the coward's zeal, who, on his knee</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behind the bole of his protecting tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So curves his musket that the bark it fits,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, firing, blows the weapon into bits;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But with the noble aim of one whose heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Values his foeman for he loves his art</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The veteran debater moves afield,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Untaught to libel as untaught to yield.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear foeman mine, I've but this end in view—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That to prevent which most you wish to do.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What, then, are you most eager to be at?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hate me? Nay, I'll help you, sir, at that.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This only passion does your soul inspire:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You wish to scorn me. Well, you shall admire.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'Tis not enough my neighbors that you school</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the belief that I'm a rogue or fool;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That small advantage you would gladly trade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For what one moment would <i>yourself</i> persuade.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Write, then, your largest and your longest lie:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i>You</i> sha'n't believe it, howsoe'er you try.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No falsehood you can tell, no evil do,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall turn me from the truth to injure you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So all your war is barren of effect;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I find my victory in your respect.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What profit have you if the world you set</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against me? For the world will soon forget</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It thought me this or that; but I'll retain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A vivid picture of your moral stain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cherish till my memory expire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sweet, soft consciousness that you're a liar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is it <i>your</i> triumph, then, to prove that you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will do the thing that I would scorn to do?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God grant that I forever be exempt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From such advantage as my foe's contempt.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="phil-crimmins" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">"Phil" Crimmins</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Still as he climbed into the public view</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His charms of person more apparent grew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till the pleased world that watched his airy grace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saw nothing of him but his nether face—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forgot his follies with his head's retreat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And blessed his virtues as it viewed their seat.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-the-scales" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">On the Scales</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The proverb hath it. Waterman:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"There never is great loss without</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some little gain." 'Tis Nature's plan</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of restitution, I've no doubt;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As sometimes a repentant thief</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Restores, for conscience's relief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some ten per cent., or thereabout,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of all the loot with which he ran.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Dear Governor, when you were ill</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You lost, they say, some twenty pound;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, muse and ponder as I will.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And cast my searching thoughts around,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I find in that great loss no gain—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unless indeed in heart and brain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You suffered it; but I'll be bound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That they are unaffected still.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For still you're foolish and absurd.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And still malicious and perverse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As ever; and in truth I've heard</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That since recovering you're worse.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The inference, I think, is fair:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You lost not what we best could spare:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your character remains to curse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The State until you're sepulchred.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'Tis true there's measurably less</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of you to pack—and you're a load—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But chiefly that concerns, I guess,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The patient beast that you bestrode</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When, booted, spurred and gloved and all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You led Mark Boruck from the stall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To ride him on that rocky road,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Political unrighteousness.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In gain to Boruck, though, we scan</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A loss to every honest soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It aids the weekly <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Harridan</i>,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His thoroughbred-and-butter foal.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To end: the weight whose loss we mourn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Waterman by illness torn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was mostly <em>water</em>—it were droll</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To learn he'd twenty pounds of <em>man</em>!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="codex-honoris" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Codex Honoris</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Jacob Jacobs, of Oakland, he swore:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Dat Solomon Martin—I'll haf his gore!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Solomon Martin, of Oakland, he said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Of Shacob Shacobs der bleed I vill shed!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So they met, with seconds and surgeon at call,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fought with pistol and powder and—all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was done in good faith,—as before I said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They fought with pistol and powder and—shed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tears, O my friends, for each other they marred</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fighting with pistol and powder and—lard!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the lead had been stolen away, every trace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Christian hog-product supplied its place.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then the shade of Moses indignant arose:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Quvicker dan lighdnings go vosh yer glose!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jacob Jacobs, of Oakland, they say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Applied for a pension the following day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Solomon Martin, of Oakland, I hear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will call himself Colonel for many a year.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-w-h-l-b" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To W.H.L.B.</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Refrain, dull orator, from speaking out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For silence deepens when you raise the shout;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But when you hold your tongue we hear, at least,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your noise in mastering that little beast.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="emancipation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Emancipation</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Behold! the days of miracle at last</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Return—if ever they were truly past:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From sinful creditors' unholy greed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The church called Calvary at last is freed—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So called for there the Savior's crucified,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Roberts and Carmany on either side.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The circling contribution-box no more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Provokes the nod and simulated snore;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No more the Lottery, no more the Fair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lure the reluctant dollar from its lair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor Ladies' Lunches at a bit a bite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Destroy the health yet spare the appetite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While thrifty sisters o'er the cauldron stoop</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To serve their God with zeal, their friends with soup,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the brethren mendicate the earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With viewless placards: "We've been <i>so</i> from birth!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sure of his wage, the pastor now can lend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His whole attention to his latter end,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remarking with a martyr's prescient thrill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Hemp maturing on the cheerless Hill.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The holy brethren, lifting pious palms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pour out their gratitude in prayer and psalms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chant <i>De Profundis</i>, meaning "out of debt,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dance like mad—or would if they were let.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Deeply disguised (a deacon newly dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Supplied the means) Jack Satan holds his head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As high as any and as loudly sings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His <i>jubilate</i> till each rafter rings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Rejoice, ye ever faithful," bellows he,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"The debt is lifted and the temple free!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then says, aside, with gentle cachination:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I've got a mortgage on the congregation."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="johndonkey" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Johndonkey</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>There isn't a man living who does not have at least a sneaking reverence for a horse-shoe.</p>
						<cite epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Evening Post</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Thus the poor ass whose appetite has ne'er</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Known than the thistle any sweeter fare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thinks all the world eats thistles. Thus the clown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wit and Mentor of the country town,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grins through the collar of a horse and thinks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Others for pleasure do as he for drinks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though secretly, because unwilling still</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In public to attest their lack of skill.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each dunce whose life and mind all follies mar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Believes as he is all men living are—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His vices theirs, their understandings his;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Naught that he knows not, all he fancies, <i>is</i>.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How odd that any mind such stuff should boast!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How natural to write it in the <i>Post</i>!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="hell" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Hell</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The friends who stood about my bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Looked down upon my face and said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"God's will be done—the fellow's dead."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When from my body I was free</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I straightway felt myself, ah me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sink downward to the life to be.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Full twenty centuries I fell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then alighted. "Here you dwell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For aye," a Voice cried—"this is Hell!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A landscape lay about my feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where trees were green and flowers sweet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The climate was devoid of heat.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The sun looked down with gentle beam</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the bosom of the stream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor saw I any sign of steam.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The waters by the sky were tinged,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hills with light and color fringed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Birds warbled on the wing unsinged.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Ah, no, this is not Hell," I cried;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"The preachers ne'er so greatly lied.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This is Earth's spirit glorified!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Good souls do not in Hades dwell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, look, there's John P. Irish!" "Well,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Voice said, "that's what makes it Hell."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="by-false-pretenses" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">By False Pretenses</h3>
				<p>
					<span>John S. Hittell, whose sovereign genius wields</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The quill his tributary body yields;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The author of an opera—that is,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All but the music and libretto's his:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A work renowned, whose formidable name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Linked with his own, repels the assault of fame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the high vantage of a dusty shelf,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Secure from all the world except himself;—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who told the tale of "Culture" in a screed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That all might understand if some would read;—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Master of poesy and lord of prose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dowered, like a setter, with a double nose;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That one for Erato, for Clio this;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He flushes both—not his fault if we miss;—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Judge of the painter's art, who'll straight proclaim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hue of any color you can name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And knows a painting with a canvas back</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Distinguished from a duck by the duck's quack;—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This thinker and philosopher, whose work</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is famous from Commercial street to Turk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has got a fortune now, his talent's meed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A woman left it him who could not read,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so went down to death's eternal night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweetly unconscious that the wretch could write.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="lucifer-of-the-torch" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Lucifer of the Torch</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O Reverend Ravlin, once with sounding lung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You shook the bloody banner of your tongue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Urged all the fiery boycotters afield</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And swore you'd rather follow them than yield,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alas, how brief the time, how great the change!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your dogs of war are ailing all of mange;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The loose leash dangles from your finger-tips,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the loud "havoc" dies upon your lips.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No spirit animates your feeble clay—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You'd rather yield than even run away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In vain McGlashan labors to inspire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your pallid nostril with his breath of fire:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The light of battle's faded from your face—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You keep the peace, John Chinaman his place.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Ravlin, what cold water, thrown by whom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the kindling Boycott's ruddy bloom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has slaked your parching blood-thirst and allayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flash and shimmer of your lingual blade?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your salary—your salary's unpaid!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In the old days, when Christ with scourges drave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Ravlins headlong from the Temple's nave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each bore upon his pelt the mark divine—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Boycott's red authenticating sign.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Birth-marked forever in surviving hurts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Glowing and smarting underneath their shirts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Successive Ravlins have revenged their shame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By blowing every coal and flinging flame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you, the latest (may you be the last!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Endorsed with that hereditary, vast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And monstrous rubric, would the feud prolong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save that cupidity forbids the wrong.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In strife you preferably pass your days—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But brawl no moment longer than it pays.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By shouting when no more you can incite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dogs to put the timid sheep to flight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To load, for you, the brambles with their fleece,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You cackle concord to congenial geese,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Put pinches of goodwill upon their tails</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pluck them with a touch that never fails.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-whirligig-of-time" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">"The Whirligig of Time"</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Dr. Jewell speaks of Balaam</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his vices, to assail 'em.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ancient enmities how cruel!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Balaam cudgeled once a Jewell.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-railroad-lackey" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Railroad Lackey</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Ben Truman, you're a genius and can write,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though one would not suspect it from your looks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You lack that certain spareness which is quite</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Distinctive of the persons who make books.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You show the workmanship of Stanford's cooks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About the region of the appetite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where geniuses are singularly slight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your friends the Chinamen are understood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Indeed, to speak of you as "belly good."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Still, you can write—spell, too, I understand—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though how two such accomplishments can go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like sentimental schoolgirls, hand in hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is more than ever I can hope to know.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To have one talent good enough to show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has always been sufficient to command</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The veneration of the brilliant band</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of railroad scholars, who themselves, indeed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Although they cannot write, can mostly read.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There's Towne and Fillmore, Goodman and Steve Gage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ned Curtis of Napoleonic face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who used to dash his name on glory's page</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"A.M." appended to denote his place</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Among the learned. Now the last faint trace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Nap. is all obliterate with age,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Ned's degree less precious than his wage.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He says: "I done it," with his every breath.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Thou canst not say I did it," says Macbeth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Good land! how I run on! I quite forgot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whom this was meant to be about; for when</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I think upon that odd, unearthly lot—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Not quite Creedhaymonds, yet not wholly men—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I'm dominated by my rebel pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That, like the stubborn bird from which 'twas got,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Goes waddling forward if I will or not.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To leave your comrades, Ben, I'm now content:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'll meet them later if I don't repent.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You've writ a letter, I observe—nay, more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You've published it—to say how good you think</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The coolies, and invite them to come o'er</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In thicker quantity. Perhaps you drink</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No corporation's wine, but love its ink;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or when you signed away your soul and swore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On railrogue battle-fields to shed your gore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You mentally reserved the right to shed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The raiment of your character instead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You're naked, anyhow: unragged you stand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In frank and stark simplicity of shame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And here upon your flank, in letters grand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The iron has marked you with your owner's name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Needless, for none would steal and none reclaim.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But "#eland $tanford" is a pretty brand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wrought by an artist with a cunning hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But come—this naked unreserve is flat:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don your habiliment—you're fat, you're fat!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-legatee" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Legatee</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In fair San Francisco a good man did dwell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he wrote out a will, for he didn't feel well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said he: "It is proper, when making a gift,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To stimulate virtue by comforting thrift."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So he left all his property, legal and straight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To "the cursedest rascal in all of the State."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the name he refused to insert, for, said he;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Let each man consider himself legatee."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In due course of time that philanthropist died,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all San Francisco, and Oakland beside—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save only the lawyers—came each with his claim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lawyers preferring to manage the same.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The cases were tried in Department Thirteen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Judge Murphy presided, sedate and serene,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But couldn't quite specify, legal and straight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cursedest rascal in all of the State.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And so he remarked to them, little and big—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To claimants: "You skip!" and to lawyers: "You dig!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They tumbled, tumultuous, out of his court</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And left him victorious, holding the fort.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'Twas then that he said: "It is plain to my mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This property's ownerless—how can I find</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cursedest rascal in all of the State?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So he took it himself, which was legal and straight.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="died-of-a-rose" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">"Died of a Rose"</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A reporter he was, and he wrote, wrote he:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"The grave was covered as thick as could be</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With floral tributes"—which reading,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The editor man he said, he did so:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"For 'floral tributes' he's got for to go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For I hold the same misleading."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then he called him in and he pointed sweet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To a blooming garden across the street,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Inquiring: "What's them a-growing?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The reporter chap said: "Why, where's your eyes?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Them's floral tributes!" "Arise, arise,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The editor said, "and be going."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-literary-hangman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Literary Hangman</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Beneath his coat of dirt great Neilson loves</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To hide the avenging rope.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He handles all he touches without gloves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Excepting soap.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="at-the-eleventh-hour" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">At the Eleventh Hour</h3>
				<p>
					<span>As through the blue expanse he skims</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On joyous wings, the late</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Frank Hutchings overtakes Miss Sims,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Both bound for Heaven's high gate.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In life they loved and (God knows why</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A lover so should sue)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He slew her, on the gallows high</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Died pious—and they flew.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Her pinions were bedraggled, soiled</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And torn as by a gale,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While his were bright—all freshly oiled</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The feathers of his tail.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Her visage, too, was stained and worn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And menacing and grim;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His sweet and mild—you would have sworn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That <i>she</i> had murdered <i>him</i>.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When they'd arrived before the gate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He said to her: "My dear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis hard once more to separate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But <i>you</i> can't enter here.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"For you, unluckily, were sent</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So quickly to the grave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You had no notice to repent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor time your soul to save."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"'Tis true," said she, "and I should wail</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In Hell even now, but I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have lingered round the county jail</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To see a Christian die."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-controversialist" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Controversialist</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I've sometimes wished that Ingersoll were wise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hold his tongue, nor rail against the skies;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For when he's made a point some pious dunce</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like Bartlett of the <i>Bulletin</i> "replies."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I brandish no iconoclastic fist,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor enter the debate an atheist;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But when they say there is a God I ask</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why Bartlett, then, is suffered to exist.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Even infidels that logic might resent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saying: "There's no place for his punishment</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That's worse than earth." But humbly I submit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he would make a hell wherever sent.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mendax" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Mendax</h3>
				<p>
					<span>High Lord of Liars, Pickering, to thee</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let meaner mortals bend the subject knee!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thine is mendacity's imperial crown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alike by genius, action and renown.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No man, since words could set a cheek aflame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>E'er lied so greatly with so little shame!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O bad old man, must thy remaining years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be passed in leading idiots by their ears—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thine own (which Justice, if she ruled the roast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would fasten to the penitential post)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still wagging sympathetically—hung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>the same rocking-bar that bears thy tongue?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thou dog of darkness, dost thou hope to stay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Time's dread advance till thou hast had thy day?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dost think the Strangler will release his hold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because, forsooth, some fibs remain untold?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No, no—beneath thy multiplying load</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of years thou canst not tarry on the road</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To dabble in the blood thy leaden feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have pressed from bosoms that have ceased to beat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of reputations margining thy way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor wander from the path new truth to slay.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tell to thyself whatever lies thou wilt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Catch as thou canst at pennies got by guilt—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Straight down to death this blessed year thou'lt sink,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy life washed out as with a wave of ink.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But if this prophecy be not fulfilled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thou who killest patience be not killed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If age assail in vain and vice attack</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Only by folly to be beaten back;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet Nature can this consolation give:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rogues who die not are condemned to live!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-retrospective-bird" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Retrospective Bird</h3>
				<p>
					<span>His caw is a cackle, his eye is dim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he mopes all day on the lowest limb;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not a word says he, but he snaps his bill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And twitches his palsied head, as a quill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ultimate plume of his pride and hope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quits his now featherless nose-of-the-Pope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leaving that eminence brown and bare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exposed to the Prince of the Power of the Air.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he sits and he thinks: "I'm an old, old man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mateless and chickless, the last of my clan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I'd give the half of the days gone by</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To perch once more on the branches high,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hear my great-grand-daddy's comical croaks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In authorized versions of <i>Bulletin</i> jokes."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-oakland-dog" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Oakland Dog</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I lay one happy night in bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dreamed that all the dogs were dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They'd all been taken out and shot—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their bodies strewed each vacant lot.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O'er all the earth, from Berkeley down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To San Leandro's ancient town,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And out in space as far as Niles—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw their mortal parts in piles.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One stack upreared its ridge so high</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against the azure of the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That some good soul, with pious views,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Put up a steeple and sold pews.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No wagging tail the scene relieved:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I never in my life conceived</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(I swear it on the Decalogue!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such penury of living dog.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The barking and the howling stilled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The snarling with the snarler killed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All nature seemed to hold its breath:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The silence was as deep as death.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>True, candidates were all in roar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On every platform, as before;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And villains, as before, felt free</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To finger the calliope.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>True, the Salvationist by night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And milkman in the early light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lonely flutist and the mill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Performed their functions with a will.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>True, church bells on a Sunday rang</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sick man's curtain down—the bang</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of trains, contesting for the track,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of the shadow called him back.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>True, cocks, at all unheavenly hours,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crew with excruciating powers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cats on the woodshed rang and roared,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fat citizens and fog-horns snored.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But this was all too fine for ears</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Accustomed, through the awful years,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the nocturnal monologues</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And day debates of Oakland dogs.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And so the world was silent. Now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What else befell—to whom and how?</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i>Imprimis</i>, then, there were no fleas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And days of worth brought nights of ease.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Men walked about without the dread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of being torn to many a shred,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each fragment holding half a cruse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of hydrophobia's quickening juice.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They had not to propitiate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some curst kioodle at each gate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But entered one another's grounds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unscared, and were not fed to hounds.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Women could drive and not a pup</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would lift the horse's tendons up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And let them go—to interject</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A certain musical effect.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Even children's ponies went about,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All grave and sober-paced, without</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A bulldog hanging to each nose—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Proud of his fragrance, I suppose.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Dog being dead, Man's lawless flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Burned out: he granted Woman's claim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Children's and those of country, art—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>all took lodgings in his heart.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When memories of his former shame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crimsoned his cheeks with sudden flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He said; "I know my fault too well—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They fawned upon me and I fell."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah! 'twas a lovely world!—no more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I met that indisposing bore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The unseraphic cynogogue—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The man who's proud to love a dog.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thus in my dream the golden reign</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Reason filled the world again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all mankind confessed her sway,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Walnut Creek to San Jose.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-unfallen-brave" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Unfallen Brave</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Not all in sorrow and in tears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To pay of gratitude's arrears</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The yearly sum—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not prompted, wholly by the pride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of those for whom their friends have died,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To-day we come.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Another aim we have in view</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than for the buried boys in blue</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To drop a tear:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Memorial Day revives the chin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Barnes, and Salomon chimes in—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That's why we're here.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And when in after-ages they</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall pass, like mortal men, away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Their war-song sung,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then fame will tell the tale anew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of how intrepidly they drew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The deadly tongue.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then cull white lilies for the graves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Liberty's loquacious braves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And roses red.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those represent their livers, these</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blood that in unmeasured seas</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They did not shed.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-celebrated-case" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Celebrated Case</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Way down in the Boom Belt lived Mrs. Roselle;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A person named Petrie, he lived there as well;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But Mr. Roselle he resided away—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing tooral iooral iooral iay.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Once Mrs. Roselle in her room was alone:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flesh of her flesh and the bone of her bone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Neglected the wife of his bosom to woo—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing tooral iooral iooral ioo.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then Petrie, her lover, appeared at the door,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remarking: "My dear; I don't love you no more."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"That's awfully rough," said the lady, "on me—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing tooral iooral iooral iee."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Come in, Mr. Petrie," she added, "pray do:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Although you don't love me no more, I love you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sit down while I spray you with vitriol now—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing tooral iooral iooral iow."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Said Petrie: "That liquid I know won't agree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With my beauty, and then you'll no longer love me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So spray and be "—O, what a word he did say!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing tooral iooral iooral iay.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She deluged his head and continued to pour</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till his bonny blue eyes, like his love, were no more.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was seldom he got such a hearty shampoo—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing tooral iooral iooral ioo.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then Petrie he rose and said: "Mrs. Roselle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have an engagement and bid you farewell."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"You see," she began to explain—but not he!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing tooral, iooral, iooral iee.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Sheriff he came and he offered his arm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saying, "Sorry I am for disturbin' you, marm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But business is business." Said she, "So they say—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing tooral, iooral, iooral iay."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Judge on the bench he looked awfully stern;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The District Attorney began to attorn;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The witnesses lied and the lawyers—O my!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing tooral, iooral, iooral iyi.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The chap that defended her said: "It's our claim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he loved us no longer and told us the same.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What else than we did could we decently do?—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing tooral, iooral, iooral ioo."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The District Attorney, sarcastic, replied:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"We loved you no longer—that can't be denied.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not having no eyes we may dote on you now—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing tooral, iooral, iooral iow."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The prisoner wept to entoken her fears;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sockets of Petrie were flooded with tears.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O heaven-born Sympathy, bully for you!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing tooral, iooral, iooral ioo.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Four jurors considered the prisoner mad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And four thought her victim uncommonly bad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And four that the acid was all in his eye—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing rum tiddy iddity iddity hi.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="couplets" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Couplets</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>For Inscription on a Sword Presented to Colonel Cutting of the National Guard.</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>I am for Cutting. I'm a blade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Designed for use at dress parade.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My gleaming length, when I display</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Peace rules the land with gentle sway;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But when the war-dogs bare their teeth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go seek me in the modest sheath.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am for Cutting. Not for me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The task of setting nations free.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let soulless blades take human life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My softer metal shuns the strife.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The annual review is mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When gorgeous shopmen sweat and shine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Biddy, tip-toe on the pave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Adores the cobble-trotting brave.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am for Cutting. 'Tis not mine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hew amain the hostile line;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not mine all pitiless to spread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The plain with tumuli of dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My grander duty lies afar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From haunts of the insane hussar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where charging horse and struggling foot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are grimed alike with cannon-soot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Loveliness and Valor meet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath the trees to dance, and eat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sing, and much beside, behold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My golden glories all unfold!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There formidably are displayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The useful horrors of my blade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In time of feast and dance and ballad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am for cutting chicken salad.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-retort" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Retort</h3>
				<p>
					<span>As vicious women think all men are knaves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shrew-bound gentlemen discourse of slaves;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As reeling drunkards judge the world unsteady</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And idlers swear employers ne'er get ready—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thieves that the constable stole all they had,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mad that all except themselves are mad;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, in another's clear escutcheon shown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Barnes rails at stains reflected from his own;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prates of "docility," nor feels the dark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ring round his neck—the Ralston collar mark.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Back, man, to studies interrupted once,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere yet the rogue had merged into the dunce.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Back, back to Yale! and, grown with years discreet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The course a virgin's lust cut short, complete.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go drink again at the Pierian pool,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And learn—at least to better play the fool.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No longer scorn the draught, although the font,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unlike Pactolus, waters not Belmont.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-vision-of-resurrection" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Vision of Resurrection</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I had a dream. The habitable earth—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its continents and islands, all were bare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of cities and of forests. Naught remained</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of its old aspect, and I only knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(As men know things in dreams, unknowing how)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That this was earth and that all men were dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On every side I saw the barren land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even to the distant sky's inclosing blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thick-pitted all with graves; and all the graves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save one were open—not as newly dug,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But rather as by some internal force</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Riven for egress. Tombs of stone were split</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wide agape, and in their iron decay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The massive mausoleums stood in halves.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With mildewed linen all the ground was white.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Discarded shrouds upon memorial stones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hung without motion in the soulless air.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While greatly marveling how this should be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I heard, or fancied that I heard, a voice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Low like an angel's, delicately strong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sweet as music.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="right">—"Spirit," it said, "behold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The burial place of universal Man!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A million years have rolled away since here</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His sheeted multitudes (save only some</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose dark misdeeds required a separate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And individual arraignment) rose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To judgment at the trumpet's summoning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And passed into the sky for their award,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leaving behind these perishable things</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which yet, preserved by miracle, endure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till all are up. Then they and all of earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rock-hearted mountain and storm-breasted sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>River and wilderness and sites of dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And vanished capitals of men, shall spring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To flame, and naught shall be for evermore!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When all are risen that wonder will occur.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twas but ten centuries ago the last</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But one came forth—a soul so black with sin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against whose name so many crimes were set</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That only now his trial is at end.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But one remains."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="right">Straight, as the voice was stilled—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That single rounded mound cracked lengthliwise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And one came forth in grave-clothes. For a space</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He stood and gazed about him with a smile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Superior; then laying off his shroud</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Disclosed his two attenuated legs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which, like parentheses, bent outwardly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As by the weight of saintliness above,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so sprang upward and was lost to view</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Noting his headstone overthrown, I read:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Sacred to memory of George K. Fitch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deacon and Editor—a holy man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who fell asleep in Jesus, full of years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And blessedness. The dead in Christ rise first."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="master-of-three-arts" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Master of Three Arts</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Your various talents, Goldenson, command</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Respect: you are a poet and can draw.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is a pity that your gifted hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Should ever have been raised against the law.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If you had drawn no pistol, but a picture,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You would have saved your throttle from a stricture.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>About your poetry I'm not so sure:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">'Tis certain we have much that's quite as bad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose hardy writers have not to endure</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The hangman's fondling. It is said they're mad:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though lately Mr. Brooks (I mean the poet)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Looked well, and if demented didn't show it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Well, Goldenson, I am a poet, too—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Taught by the muses how to smite the harp</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lift the tuneful voice, although, like you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Brooks, I sometimes flat and sometimes sharp.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But let me say, with no desire to taunt you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I never murder even the girls I want to.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I hold it one of the poetic laws</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To sing of life, not take. I've ever shown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A high regard for human life because</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I have such trouble to support my own.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you—well, you'll find trouble soon in blowing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your private coal to keep it red and glowing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I fancy now I see you at the Gate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Approach St. Peter, crawling on your belly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You cry: "Good sir, take pity on my state—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Forgive the murderer of Mamie Kelly!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Peter says: "O, that's all right—but, mister,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You scribbled rhymes. In Hell I'll make you blister!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="thersites" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Thersites</h3>
				<p>
					<span>So, in the Sunday papers <i>you</i>, Del Mar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Damn, all great Englishmen in English speech?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I am no Englishman, but in my reach</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A rogue shall never rail where heroes are.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You are the man, if I mistake you not,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Who lately with a supplicating twitch</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Plucked at the pockets of the London rich</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And paid your share-engraver all you got.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Because that you have greatly lied, because</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">You libel nations, and because no hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of officer is raised to bid you stand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And falsehood is unpunished of the laws,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I stand here in a public place to mark</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">With level finger where you part the crowd—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I stand to name you and to cry aloud:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Behold mendacity's great hierarch!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-society-leader" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Society Leader</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"The Social World"! O what a world it is—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where full-grown men cut capers in the German,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cotillion, waltz, or what you will, and whizz</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And spin and hop and sprawl about like mermen!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I wonder if our future Grant or Sherman,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As these youths pass their time, is passing his—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If eagles ever come from painted eggs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or deeds of arms succeed to deeds of legs.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I know they tell us about Waterloo:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How, "foremost fighting," fell the evening's</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">dancers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I don't believe it: I regard it true</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That soldiers who are skillful in "the Lancers"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Less often die of cannon than of cancers.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Moreover, I am half-persuaded, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That David when he danced before the Ark</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had the reporter's word to keep it dark.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ed. Greenway, you fatigue. Your hateful name</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like maiden's curls, is in the papers daily.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You think it, doubtless, honorable fame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And contemplate the cheap distinction gaily,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As does the monkey the blue-painted tail he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Believes becoming to him. 'Tis the same</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With men as other monkeys: all their souls</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Crave eminence on any kind of poles.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But cynics (barking tribe!) are all agreed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That monkeys upon poles performing capers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are not exalted, they are only "treed."</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A glory that is kindled by the papers</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is transient as the phosphorescent vapors</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That shine in graveyards and are seen, indeed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But while the bodies that supply the gas</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are turning into weeds to feed an ass.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One can but wonder sometimes how it feels</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To <i>be</i> an ass—a beast we beat condignly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because, like yours, his life is in his heels</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he is prone to use them unbenignly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The ladies (bless them!) say you dance divinely.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I like St. Vitus better, though, who deals</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His feet about him with a grace more just,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And hops, not for he will, but for he must.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Doubtless it gratifies you to observe</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Elbowy girls and adipose mamas</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All looking adoration as you swerve</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This way and that; but prosperous papas</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Laugh in their sleeves at you, and their ha-has,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If heard, would somewhat agitate your nerve.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And dames and maids who keep you on their</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">shelves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don't seem to want a closer tie themselves.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Gods! what a life you live!—by day a slave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To your exacting back and urgent belly;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Intent to earn and vigilant to save—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By night, attired so sightly and so smelly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With countenance as luminous as jelly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bobbing and bowing! King of hearts and knave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of diamonds, I'd bet a silver brick</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If brains were trumps you'd never take a trick.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="expositor-veritatis" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Expositor Veritatis</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I Slept, and, waking in the years to be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Heard voices, and approaching whence they came,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Listened indifferently where a key</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had lately been removed. An ancient dame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said to her daughter: "Go to yonder caddy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And get some emery to scour your daddy."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And then I knew—some intuition said—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That tombs were not and men had cleared their shelves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of urns; and the electro-plated dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Stood pedestaled as statues of themselves.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With famous dead men all the public places</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were thronged, and some in piles awaited bases.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One mighty structure's high fagade alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Contained a single monumental niche,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where, central in that steep expanse of stone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gleamed the familiar form of Thomas Fitch.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man cried: "Lo! Truth's temple and its founder!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then gravely added: "I'm her chief expounder."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-troubadour" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Troubadour</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Professor Gayley, you're a great man, sure!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They say that you can almost fly!—can spell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And parse, but cannot figure well</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(For mathematics is not literature)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hold—with rancor—that twice two are fewer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Than they're cracked up to be. Let sinners tell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wherein you disappoint, but I will swell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The chorus of your greatness. I'll procure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For that exploit a megaphone of brass.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And roar your excellences to the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fill with witness all the world! Alas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You can't write poetry! No more can I,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that, you'll notice, is another matter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Besides, I'm less ubiloquent, and fatter.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You hold the Chair, so your credentials say.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of English Letters. That is well and fine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Through teaching diligently, line by line.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You may yourself have the good luck some day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To learn enough of it to bid you stay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your red right hand from making it. The nine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dear Muses then with laurels will entwine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your brows and leg it lightly to display</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their joy. O bold, bad poet, hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">These words of wisdom (from a grizzled head)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inserted civilly into your ear:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In teaching verse you'll better earn your bread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And on our feelings less unkindly trample,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If you will work by precept, not example.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Not all the shouting capitals you use</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Can strengthen feebleness, nor all the skill</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You lack conceal the foolish hates that fill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fountain whence the driblet of your views</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flows in a dirty channel to suffuse</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With slime the British Empire! Dip your quill</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In something sweeter and you'll write less ill—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At least your rant we better can excuse.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No doubt you wish you had been born a Boer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(Spelling excepted, so indeed you were;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A Bore as well) but that's a very poor</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ambition. By the Lord! I should prefer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be a Briton though they shot me daily</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And threw my body to your hoofs, Jack Gayley.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-finger-on-the-lips" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Finger on the Lips</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O Mike, have ye heard the good news?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They're gwan to have Home Rule at last ;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An' a Parlyment fine they will chuse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">An' wurruk's a thing o' the past.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They'll vote every man an estate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wid all he can drink and ate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Indade it's the blessedest day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We've seen since we landed here</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In America. Whisht! though—I say—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Bedad, it's no place to cheer!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Home Rule we mustn't hurroo—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They'll be wantin' it here if we do.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="three-highwaymen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Three Highwaymen</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A street contractor, t'other morn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Walked out before the day was born.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The silver moon beyond his reach</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had prudently retired, and each</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fair golden star his clutch that feared</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trembled, grew pale, and disappeared.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sun rose not—afraid to risk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His tempting, double-eagle disk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our hero—why spin out the verse?—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two robbers robbed him of his purse.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Left him uncomfortably spread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On his own pavement, semi-dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ran away exultant. He</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sang "Murder!" "Fire!" in every key,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until politeness bade him cease</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For fear of waking the police.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then straight unto the Chief, all faint.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He made his way and his complaint:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I met two robber-men," said he;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"We battled and—well, look at <em>me</em>!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sad citizen, O Chief, you see."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"How much?" asked that sententious man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Well, sir, as nearly as I can</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Compute it, though I gave them fits.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They got away—with my six bits."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Why, damn your avaricious soul!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Chief said: "do you claim the whole?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You did quite well to get, begad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within six bits of all they had!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-colonel-dan-burns" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To "Colonel" Dan. Burns</h3>
				<p>
					<span>They say, my lord, that you're a Warwick. Well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The title's an absurd one, I believe:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You make no kings, you have no kings to sell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though really 'twere easy to conceive</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You stuffing half-a-dozen up your sleeve.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No, you're no Warwick, skillful from the shell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hatch out sovereigns. On a mare's nest, maybe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You'd incubate a little jackass baby.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I fancy, too, that it is naught but stuff,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This "power" that you're said to be "behind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The throne." I'm sure 'twere accurate enough</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To represent you simply as inclined</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To push poor Markham (ailing in his mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And body, which were never very tough)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Round in an invalid's wheeled chair. Such menial</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Employment to low natures is congenial.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No, Dan, you're an impostor every way:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A human bubble, for "the earth," you know,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Hath bubbles, as the water hath." Some day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some careless hand will prick your film, and O,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How utterly you'll vanish! Daniel, throw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(As fallen Woolsey might to Cromwell say)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your curst ambition to the pigs—though truly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twould make them greater pigs, and more unruly.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="george-a-knight" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">George A. Knight</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Attorney Knight, it happens so sometimes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That lawyers, justifying cut-throats' crimes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For hire—calumniating, too, for gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dead, dumb victims cruelly unsouled—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Speak, through the press, to a tribunal far</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More honorable than their Honors are,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A court that sits not with assenting smile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While living rogues dead gentleman revile,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A court where scoundrel ethics of your trade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Confuse no judgment and no cheating aid,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Court of Honest Souls, where you in vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May plead your right to falsify for gain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sternly reminded if a man engage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To serve assassins for the liar's wage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His mouth with vilifying falsehoods crammed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He's twice detestable and doubly damned!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Attorney Knight, defending Powell, you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To earn your fee, so energetic grew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(So like a hound, the pride of all the pack,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clapping your nose upon the dead man's track</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To run his faults to earth—at least proclaim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At vacant holes the overtaken game)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That men who marked you nourishing the tongue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And saw your arms so vigorously swung,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All marveled how so light a breeze could stir</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So great a windmill to so great a whirr!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Little they knew, or surely they had grinned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mill was laboring to raise the wind.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ralph Smith a "shoulder-striker"! God, O hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This hardy man's description of thy dear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dead child, the gentlest soul, save only One,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>E'er born in any land beneath the sun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All silent benefactions still he wrought:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>High deed and gracious speech and noble thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kept all thy law, and, seeking still the right,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon his blameless breast received the light.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Avenge, O Lord, thy slaughtered saints," he cried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose wrath was deep as his comparison wide—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Milton, thy servant. Nay, thy will be done:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To smite or spare—to me it all is one.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can vengeance bring my sorrow to an end,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or justice give me back my buried friend?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But if some Milton vainly now implore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Powell prosper as he did before,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet 'twere too much that, making no ado,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy saints be slaughtered and be slandered too.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, Lord, make Knight his weapon keep in sheath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or do Thou wrest it from between his teeth!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="unarmed" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Unarmed</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Saint Peter sat at the jasper gate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Stephen M. White arrived in state.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Admit me." "With pleasure," Peter said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pleased to observe that the man was dead;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"That's what I'm here for. Kindly show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your ticket, my lord, and in you go."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>White stared in blank surprise. Said he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I <i>run</i> this place—just turn that key."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Yes?" said the Saint; and Stephen heard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With pain the inflection of that word.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But, mastering his emotion, he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remarked: "My friend, you're too d⸺ free;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I'm Stephen M., by thunder, White!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, "Yes?" the guardian said, with quite</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The self-same irritating stress</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Distinguishing his former yes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And still demurely as a mouse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He twirled the key to that Upper House.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then Stephen, seeing his bluster vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Admittance to those halls to gain,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Said, neighborly: "Pray tell me. Pete,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Does any one contest my seat?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Saint replied: "Nay, nay, not so;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But you voted always wrong below:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Whate'er the question, clear and high</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You're voice rang: '<i>I</i>,' '<i>I</i>,' ever '<i>I</i>.'"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now indignation fired the heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of that insulted immortal part.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Die, wretch!" he cried, with blanching lip,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made a motion to his hip,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With purpose murderous and hearty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To draw the Democratic party!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He felt his fingers vainly slide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon his unappareled hide</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>(The dead arise from their "silent tents"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But not their late habiliments)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then wailed—the briefest of his speeches:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I've left it in my other breeches!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-political-violet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Political Violet</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Come, Stanford, let us sit at ease</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And talk as old friends do.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You talk of anything you please,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And I will talk of you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You recently have said, I hear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That you would like to go</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To serve as Senator. That's queer!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Have you told William Stow?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Once when the Legislature said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"Go, Stanford, and be great!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You lifted up your Jovian head</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And everlooked the State.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As one made leisurely awake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You lightly rubbed your eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And answered: "Thank you—please to make</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A note of my surprise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"But who are they who skulk aside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As to get out of reach,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in their clothing strive to hide</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Three thousand dollars each?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Not members of your body, sure?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No, that can hardly be:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All statesmen, I suppose, are pure.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What! there are rogues? Dear me!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You added, you'll recall, that though</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You were surprised and pained,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You thought, upon the whole, you'd go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And in that mind remained.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now, what so great a change has wrought</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That you so frankly speak</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of "seeking" honors once unsought</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Because you "scorned to seek"?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Do you not fear the grave reproof</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In good Creed Haymond's eye?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will Stephen Gage not stand aloof</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And pass you coldly by?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O, fear you not that Vrooman's lich</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Will rise from earth and point</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At you a scornful finger which</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">May lack, perchance, a joint?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Go, Stanford, where the violets grow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And join their modest train.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Await the work of William Stow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And be surprised again.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-subdued-editor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Subdued Editor</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Pope-choker Pixley sat in his den</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A-chewin' upon his quid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He thought it was Leo Thirteen, and then</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">He bit it intenser, he did.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The amber which overflew from the cud</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Like rivers which burst out of bounds—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twas peculiar grateful to think it blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A-gushin' from Papal wounds.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A knockin' was heard uponto the door</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Where some one a-waitin' was.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Come in," said the shedder of priestly gore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Arrestin' to once his jaws.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The person which entered was curly of hair</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And smilin' as ever you see;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His eyes was blue, and uncommon fair</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Was his physiognomee.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And yet there was some'at remarkable grand—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And the editor says as he looks:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Your Height" (it was Highness, you understand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">That he meant, but he spoke like books)—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Your Height, I am in. I'm the editor man</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of this paper—which is to say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'm the owner, too, and it's alway ran</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">In the independentest way!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Not a damgaloot can interfere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A-shapin' my course for me:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This paper's (and nothing can make it veer)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Pixleian in policee!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"It's little to me," said the sunny youth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">"If journals is better or worse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where I am to home they won't keep, in truth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The climate is that perverse.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I've come, howsomever, your mind to light</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">With a more superior fire:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You'll have naught hencefor'ard to do but write,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">While I sets by and inspire.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"We'll make it hot all round, bedad!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And his laughture was loud and free.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"The devil!" cried Pixley, surpassin' mad.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">"Exactly, my friend—that's me."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So he took a chair and a feather fan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And he sets and sets and sets,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inspirin' that humbled editor man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Which sweats and sweats and sweats!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All unavailin' his struggles be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And it's, O, a weepin' sight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see a great editor bold and free</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Reducted to sech a plight!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="black-bart-po8" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">"Black Bart, Po8"</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Welcome, good friend; as you have served your term,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And found the joy of crime to be a fiction,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hope you'll hold your present faith, stand firm</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And not again be open to conviction.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your sins, though scarlet once, are now as wool:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You've made atonement for all past offenses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And conjugated—'twas an awful pull!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The verb "to pay" in all its moods and tenses.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You were a dreadful criminal—by Heaven,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I think there never was a man so sinful!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We've all a pinch or two of Satan's leaven,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But you appeared to have an even skinful.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Earth shuddered with aversion at your name;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Rivers fled backward, gravitation scorning;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sea and sky, from thinking on your shame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Grew lobster-red at eve and in the morning.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But still red-handed at your horrid trade</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You wrought, to reason deaf, and to compassion.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But now with gods and men your peace is made</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I beg you to be good and in the fashion.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What's that?—you "ne'er again will rob a stage"?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What! did you do so? Faith, I didn't know it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was <i>that</i> what threw poor Themis in a rage?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I thought you were convicted as a poet!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I own it was a comfort to my soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And soothed it better than the deepest curses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To think they'd got one poet in a hole</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where, though he wrote, he could not print, his verses.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I thought that Welcker, Plunkett, Brooks, and all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The ghastly crew who always are begriming</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With villain couplets every page and wall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Might be arrested and "run in" for rhyming.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And then Parnassus would be left to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Pegasus should bear me up it gaily,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor down a steep place run into the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As now he must be tempted to do daily.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Well, grab the lyre-strings, hearties, and begin:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Bawl your harsh souls all out upon the gravel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I must endure you, for you'll never sin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By robbing coaches, until dead men travel.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-scion-of-nobility" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A "Scion of Nobility"</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Come, sisters, weep!—our Baron dear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Alas! has run away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If always we had kept him here</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He had not gone astray.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Painter and grainer it were vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To say he was, before;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And if he were, yet ne'er again</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He'll darken here a door.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We mourn each matrimonial plan—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Even tradesmen join the cry:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was so promising a man</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whenever he did buy.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He was a fascinating lad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Deny it all who may;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even moneyed men confess he had</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A very taking way.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So from our tables he is gone—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our tears descend in showers;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We loved the very fat upon.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His kidneys, for 'twas ours.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To women he was all respect</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To duns as cold as ice;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No lady could his suit reject,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No tailor get its price.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He raised our hope above the sky;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Alas! alack! and O!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That one who worked it up so high</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Should play it down so low!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-night-of-election" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Night of Election</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"O venerable patriot, I pray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stand not here coatless; at the break of day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We'll know the grand result—and even now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The eastern sky is faintly touched with gray.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"It ill befits thine age's hoary crown—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This rude environment of rogue and clown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who, as the lying bulletins appear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With drunken cries incarnadine the town.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"But if with noble zeal you stay to note</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The outcome of your patriotic vote</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For Blaine, or Cleveland, and your native land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Take—and God bless you!—take my overcoat."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Done, pard—and mighty white of you. And now</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">guess the country'll keep the trail somehow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I aint allowed to vote, the Warden said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But whacked my coat up on old Stanislow."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-convicts-ball" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Convicts' Ball</h3>
				<p>
					<span>San Quentin was brilliant. Within the halls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the noble pile with the frowning walls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(God knows they've enough to make them frown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a Governor trying to break them down!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was a blaze of light. 'Twas the natal day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of his nibs the popular John S. Gray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And many observers considered his birth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The primary cause of his moral worth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"The ball is free!" cried Black Bart, and they all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said a ball with no chain was a novel ball;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"And I never have seed," said Jimmy Hope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Sech a lightsome dance withouten a rope."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chinamen, Indians, Portuguese, Blacks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Russians, Italians, Kanucks and Kanaks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chilenos, Peruvians, Mexicans—all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Greased with their presence that notable ball.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>None were excluded excepting, perhaps,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Rev. Morrison's churchly chaps,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whom, to prevent a religious debate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Warden had banished outside of the gate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fiddler, fiddling his hardest the while,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Called off" in the regular foot-hill style:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Circle to the left!" and "Forward and back!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And "Hellum to port for the stabbard tack!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(This great <i>virtuoso</i>, it would appear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was Mate of the <i>Gatherer</i> many a year.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"<i>Ally man</i> left!"—to a painful degree</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His French was unlike to the French of Paree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As heard from our countrymen lately abroad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his "<i>doe cee doe</i>" was the gem of the fraud.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But what can you hope from a gentleman barred</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From circles of culture by dogs in the yard?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twas a glorious dance, though, all the same,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Jardin Mabille in the days of its fame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never saw legs perform such springs—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cold-chisel's magic had given them wings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They footed it featly, those lades and gents:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dull care (said Long Moll) had a helly go-hence!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'Twas a very aristocratic affair:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The <i>crjme de la crjme</i> and <i>ilite</i> were there—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rank, beauty and wealth from the highest sets,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Hubert Howe Bancroft sent his regrets.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-prayer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Prayer</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Sweet Spirit of Cesspool, hear a mother's prayer:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her terrors pacify and offspring spare!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon Silurians alone let fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(And God in Heaven have mercy on them all!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The red revenges of your fragrant breath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hot with the flames invisible of death.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing in each nose a melody of smells,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lead them snoutwise to their several hells!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-one-detested" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To One Detested</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Sir, you're a veteran, revealed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In history and fable</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As warrior since you took the field,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Defeating Abel.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As Commissary later (or</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If not, in every cottage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tale is) you contracted for</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A mess of pottage.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In civil life you were, we read</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(And our respect increases)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man of peace—a man, indeed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of thirty pieces.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To paying taxes when you turned</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your mind, or what you call so,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A wide celebrity you earned—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Saphira also.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In every age, by various names,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You've won renown in story,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But on your present record flames</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A greater glory.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Cain, Esau, and Iscariot, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Ananias, likewise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each had peculiar powers, but who</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Could lie as Mike lies?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-bosss-choice" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Boss's Choice</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Listen to his wild romances:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He advances foolish fancies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each expounded as his "view"—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">Gu.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In his brain's opacous clot, ah</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He has got a maggot! What a</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Man with "views" to overwhelm us!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Gulielmus.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hear his demagogic clamor—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hear him stammer in his grammar!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Teaching, he will learn to spell—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Gulielmus L.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Slave who paid the price demanded—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With two-handed iron branded</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the boss—pray cease to dose us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gulielmus L. Jocosus.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-merciful-governor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Merciful Governor</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Standing within the triple wall of Hell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And flattening his nose against a grate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behind whose brazen bars he'd had to dwell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A thousand million ages to that date,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Stoneman bewailed his melancholy fate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his big tear-drops, boiling as they fell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had worn between his feet, the record mentions,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A deep depression in the "good intentions."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Imperfectly by memory taught how—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For prayer in Hell is a lost art—he prayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Uplifting his incinerated brow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And flaming hands in supplication's aid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"O grant," he cried, "my torment may be stayed—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In mercy, some short breathing spell allow!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If one good deed I did before my ghosting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spare me and give Delmas a double roasting."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Breathing a holy harmony in Hell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Down through the appalling clamors of the place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Charming them all to willing concord, fell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A Voice ineffable and full of grace:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Because of all the law-defying race</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One single malefactor of the cell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou didst not free from his incarceration,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Take thou ten thousand years of condonation."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Back from their fastenings began to shoot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The rusted bolts; with dreadful roar, the gate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Laboriously turned; and, black with soot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The extinguished spirit passed that awful strait,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And as he legged it into space, elate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Muttered: "Yes, I remember that galoot—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'd signed his pardon, ready to allot it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But stuck it in my desk and quite forgot it."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-interpretation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Interpretation</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Now Lonergan appears upon the boards,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Truth and Error sheathe their lingual swords.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No more in wordy warfare to engage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The commentators bow before the stage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bookworms, militant for ages past,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Confess their equal foolishness at last,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reread their Shakspeare in the newer light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And swear the meaning's obvious to sight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For centuries the question has been hot:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was Hamlet crazy, or was Hamlet not?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now, Lonergan's illuminating art</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reveals the truth of the disputed "part,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shows to all the critics of the earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Hamlet was an idiot from birth!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-soaring-toad" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Soaring Toad</h3>
				<p>
					<span>So, Governor, you would not serve again</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Although we'd all agree to pay you double.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You find it all is vanity and pain—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">One clump of clover in a field of stubble—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">One grain of pleasure in a peck of trouble.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis sad, at your age, having to complain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of disillusion; but the fault is whose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When pigmies stumble, wearing giants' shoes?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I humbly told you many moons ago</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For high preferment you were all unfit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A clumsy bear makes but a sorry show</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Climbing a pole. Let him, judicious, sit</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With dignity at bottom of his pit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And none his awkwardness will ever know.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some beasts look better, and feel better, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seen from above; and so, I think, would you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Why, you were mad! Did you suppose because</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our foolish system suffers foolish men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To climb to power, make, enforce the laws,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And, it is whispered, break them now and then,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We love the fellows and respect them when</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We've stilled the volume of our loud hurrahs?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When folly blooms we trample it the more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For having fertilized it heretofore.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Behold yon laborer! His garb is mean,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His face is grimy, but who thinks to ask</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The measure of his brains? 'Tis only seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He's fitted for his honorable task,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And so delights the mind. But let him bask</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In droll prosperity, absurdly clean—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is that the man whom we admired before?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Good Lord, how ignorant, and what a bore!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Better for you that thoughtless men had said</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(Noting your fitness in the humbler sphere):</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Why don't they make him Governor?" instead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of, "Why the devil did they?" But I fear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My words on your inhospitable ear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are wasted like a sermon to the dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still, they may profit you if studied well:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You can't be taught to think, but may to spell.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-undress-uniform" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Undress Uniform</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The apparel does <i>not</i> proclaim the man—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Polonius lied like a partisan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Salomon still would a hero seem</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If (Heaven dispel the impossible dream!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He stood in a shroud on the hangman's trap,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His eye burning holes in the black, black cap.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the crowd below would exclaim amain:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"He's ready to fall for his country again!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-perverted-village" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">The Perverted Village</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>
							<b><i>after goldsmith</i>!!!TODO!!!</b>
						</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Sweet Auburn! liveliest village of the plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where Health and Slander welcome every train,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whence smiling innocence, its tribute paid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Retires in terror, wounded and dismayed—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear lovely bowers of gossip and disease,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose climate cures us that thy dames may tease,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How often have I knelt upon thy green</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And prayed for death, to mitigate their spleen!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How often have I paused on every charm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With mingled admiration and alarm—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The brook that runs by many a scandal-mill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The church whose pastor groans upon the grill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cowthorn bush with seats beneath the shade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where hearts are struck and reputations flayed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How often wished thine idle wives, some day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Might more at whist, less at the devil, play.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Unblest retirement! ere my life's decline</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Killed by detraction) may I witness thine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How happy she who, shunning shades like these,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Finds in a wolf-den greater peace and ease;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who quits the place whence truth did earlier fly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rather than come back prefers to die!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For her no jealous maids renounce their sleep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Contriving malices to make her weep;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No iron-faced dames her character debate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And spurn imploring mercy from the gate;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But down she lies to a more peaceful end,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For wolves do not calumniate, but rend—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sinks piecemeal to their maws, a willing prey,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While resignation lubricates the way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all her prospects brighten at the last:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To wolves, not women, an approved repast.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span><i>1884</i>.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mr-sheets" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Mr. Sheets</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Devil stood before the gate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Heaven. He had a single mate:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behind him, in his shadow, slunk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clay Sheets in a perspiring funk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Saint Peter, see this season ticket,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said Satan; "pray undo the wicket."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sleepy Saint threw slight regard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the proffered bit of card,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Signed by some clerical dead-beats:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Admit the bearer and Clay Sheets."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Peter expanded all his eyes:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"'Clay Sheets?'—well, I'll be damned!" he cries.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Our couches are of golden cloud;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nothing of earth is here allowed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'll let you in," he added, shedding</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On Nick a smile—"but not your bedding."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-jack-at-all-views" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Jack-at-All-Views</h3>
				<p>
					<span>So, Estee, you are still alive! I thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That you had died and were a blessed ghost</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know at least your coffin once was bought</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With Railroad money; and 'twas said by most</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Historians that Stanford made a boast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The seller "threw you in." That goes for naught—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Man takes delight in fancy's fine inventions,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And woman too, 'tis said, if they are French ones.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Do you remember, Estee—ah, 'twas long</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And long ago!—how fierce you grew and hot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When anything impeded the straight, strong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wild sweep of the great billow you had got</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Atop of, like a swimmer bold? Great Scott!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How fine your wavemanship! How loud your song</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of "Down with railroads!" When the wave subsided</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And left you stranded you were much divided.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then for a time you were content to wade</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The waters of the "robber barons'" moat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fetch, and carry was your humble trade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And ferry Stanford over in a boat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Well paid if he bestowed the kindly groat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And spoke you fair and called you pretty maid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when his stomach seemed a bit unsteady</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You got your serviceable basin ready.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Strange man! how odd to see you, smug and spruce,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">There at Chicago, burrowed in a Chair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not made to measure and a deal too loose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And see you lift your little arm and swear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Democracy shall be no more! If it's a fair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And civil question, and not too abstruse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were you elected as a "robber baron,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or as a Communist whose teeth had hair on?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="my-lord-poet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">My Lord Poet</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Who drives fat oxen should himself be fat;"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who sings for nobles, he should noble be.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There's no <i>non sequitur</i>, I think, in that,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And this is logic plain as a, b, c.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now, Hector Stuart, you're a Scottish prince,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If right you fathom your descent—that fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From grace; and since you have no peers, and since</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You have no kind of nobleness at all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twere better to sing little, lest you wince</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When made by heartless critics to sing small.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet, my liege, I bid you not despair—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ambition conquers but a realm at once:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For European bays arrange your hair—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Two continents, in time, shall crown you Dunce!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-the-fool-killer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To the Fool-Killer</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, welcome, welcome! Sit you down, old friend;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your pipe I'll serve, your bottle I'll attend.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis many a year since you and I have known</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Society more pleasant than our own</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In our brief respites from excessive work—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I pointing out the hearts for you to dirk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What have you done since lately at this board</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We canvassed the deserts of all the horde</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And chose what names would please the people best,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Engraved on coffin-plates—what bounding breast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would give more satisfaction if at rest?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But never mind—the record cannot fail:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The loftiest monuments will tell the tale.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I trust ere next we meet you'll slay the chap</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who calls old Tyler "Judge" and Merry "Cap"—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Calls John P. Irish "Colonel" and John P.,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose surname Jack-son speaks his pedigree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the same title—men of equal rank</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though one is belly all, and one all shank,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Showing their several service in the fray:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One fought for food and one to get away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hope, I say, you'll kill the "title" man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who saddles one on every back he can,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then rides it from Bekrsheba to Dan!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Another fool, I trust, you will perform</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your office on while my resentment's warm:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He shakes my hand a dozen times a day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If, luckless, I so often cross his way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though I've three senses besides that of touch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make me conscious of a fool too much.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seek him, friend Killer, and your purpose make</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Apparent as his guilty hand you take,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And set him trembling with a solemn: "Shake!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But chief of all the addle-witted crew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Conceded by the Hangman's League to you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fool (his dam's acquainted with a knave)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose fluent pen, of his no-brain the slave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strews notes of introduction o'er the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And calls it hospitality—his hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May palsy seize ere he again consign</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To me his friend, as I to Hades mine!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pity the wretch, his faults howe'er you see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whom A accredits to his victim, B.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like shuttlecock which battledores attack</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(One speeds it forward, one would drive it back)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The trustful simpleton is twice unblest—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A rare good riddance, an unwelcome guest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The glad consignor rubs his hands to think</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How duty is commuted into ink;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The consignee (his hands he cannot rub—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He has the man upon them) mutters: "Cub!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And straightway plans to lose him at the Club.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You know, good Killer, where this dunce abides—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The secret jungle where he writes and hides—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though no exploring foot has e'er upstirred</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His human elephant's exhaustless herd.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go, bring his blood! We'll drink it—letting fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A due libation to the gods of Gall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On second thought, the gods may have it all.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="one-and-one-are-two" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">One and One Are Two</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The trumpet sounded and the dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Came forth from earth and ocean,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Pickering arose and sped</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Aloft with wobbling motion.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"What makes him fly lop-sided?" cried</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A soul of the elected.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"One ear was wax," a rogue replied,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"And isn't resurrected."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Below him on the pitted plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By his abandoned hollow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His hair and teeth tried all in vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The rest of him to follow.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Saint Peter, seeing him ascend,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Came forward to the wicket,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And said: "My mutilated friend,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I'll thank you for your ticket."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"The <i>Call</i>," said Pickering, his hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To reach the latch extended.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said Peter, affable and bland:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"The free-list is suspended—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"What claim have you that's valid here?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That ancient vilifier</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reflected; then, with look austere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Replied: "I am a liar."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Said Peter: "That is simple, neat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And candid Anglo-Saxon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But—well, come in, and take a seat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Up there by Colonel Jackson."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="montague-leverson" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Montague Leverson</h3>
				<p>
					<span>As some enormous violet that towers</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Colossal o'er the heads of lowlier flowers—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its giant petals royally displayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And casting half the landscape into shade;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Delivering its odors, like the blows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of some strong slugger, at the public nose;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pride of two Nations—for a single State</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would scarce suffice to sprout a plant so great;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So Leverson's humility, outgrown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The meaner virtues that he deigns to own,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the high skies its great corolla rears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O'ertopping all he has except his ears.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-woful-tale-of-mr-peters" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Woful Tale of Mr. Peters</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I should like, good friends, to mention the disaster which befell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mr. William Perry Peters, of the town of Muscatel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose fate is full of meaning, if correctly understood—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Admonition to the haughty, consolation to the good.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It happened in the hot snap which we recently incurred,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When 'twas warm enough to carbonize the feathers of a bird,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And men exclaimed: "By Hunky!" who were bad enough to swear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pious persons supervised their adjectives with care.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Mr. Peters was a pedagogue of honor and repute,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His learning comprehensive, multifarious, minute.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was commonly conceded in the section whence he came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the man who played against him needed knowledge of the game.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And some there were who whispered, in the town of Muscatel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That besides the game of Draw he knew Orthography as well;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though, the school directors, frigidly contemning that as stuff,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thought that Draw (and maybe Spelling, if it pleased him) was enough.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Withal, he was a haughty man—indubitably great,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But too vain of his attainments and his power in debate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His mien was contumelious to men of lesser gift:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"It's only <i>me</i>," he said, "can give the human mind a lift.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Before a proper audience, if ever I've a chance,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You'll see me chipping in, the cause of Learning to advance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just let me have a decent chance to back my mental hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I'll come to center lightly in a way they'll understand."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Such was William Perry Peters, and I feel a poignant sense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of grief that I'm unable to employ the present tense;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But Providence disposes, be our scheming what it may,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And disposed of Mr. Peters in a cold, regardless way.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It occurred in San Francisco, whither Mr. Peters came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the cause of Education, feeling still the holy flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of ambition to assist in lifting up the human mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To a higher plane of knowledge than its Architect designed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He attended the convention of the pedagogic host;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was first in the Pavilion, he was last to leave his post.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For days and days he narrowly observed the Chairman's eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His efforts ineffectual to catch it on the fly.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The blessed moment came at last: the Chairman tipped his head.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"The gentleman from ah—um—er," that functionary said.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gentleman from ah—um—er reflected with a grin:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"They'll know me better by-and-by, when I'm a-chipping in."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So William Perry Peters mounted cheerfully his feet—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And straightway was aglow with an incalculable heat!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His face was as effulgent as a human face could be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And caloric emanated from his whole periphery;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For he felt himself the focus of non-Muscatelish eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the pain of their convergence was a terror and surprise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As with pitiless impaction all their heat-waves on him broke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was seen to be evolving awful quantities of smoke!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Put him out!" cried all in chorus; but the meaning wasn't clear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of that succoring suggestion to his obfuscated ear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And it notably augmented his incinerating glow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To regard himself excessive, or in any way <i>de trop</i>.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Gone was all his wild ambition to lift up the human mind!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gone the words he would have uttered!—gone the thought that lay behind!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For "words that burn" may be consumed in a superior flame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And "thoughts that breathe" may breathe their last, and die a death of shame.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He'd known himself a shining light, but never had he known</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Himself so very luminous as now he knew he shone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"A pillar, I, of fire," he'd said, "to guide my race will be;"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now that very inconvenient thing to him was he.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He stood there all irresolute; the seconds went and came;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The minutes passed and did but add fresh fuel to his flame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How long he stood he knew not—'twas a century or more—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then that incandescent man levanted for the door!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He darted like a comet from the building to the street,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where Fahrenheit attested ninety-five degrees of heat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vicissitudes of climate make the tenure of the breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Precarious, and William Perry Peters froze to death!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="twin-unworthies" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Twin Unworthies</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Ye parasites that to the rich men stick,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As to the fattest sheep the thrifty tick—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ed'ard to Stanford and to Crocker Ben</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(To Ben and Ed'ard many meaner men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lice to these)—who do the kind of work</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That thieves would have the honesty to shirk—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose wages are that your employers own</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fat that reeks upon your every bone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And deigns to ask (the flattery how sweet!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About its health and how it stands the heat,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hail and farewell! I meant to write about you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, no, my page is cleaner far without you.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="art" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Art</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Lo! tooth and nail my countrymen contest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which portrait of Columbus is the best.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Considering that the pirate never "sat,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That is as like as this, and this as that.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We want a face that shows, by all the rules,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A prophecy of ninety million fools.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-war-cry" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A War Cry</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Charles Shortridge, with his martial mouth in place</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At his own ear, shouts dreadful!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pale horrors shudder through eternal space—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of which he has a headful.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-dissuasion" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">In Dissuasion</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Dan Burns, you'd be a Senator, I hear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Senators are persons of much note.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I cannot choose but think it very queer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That you solicit for the place a vote.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Why, don't you know you'll have to ride the goat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be skyward from a shaken blanket hurled</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And put in session on a heated chair</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Till your immortal part is more than rare—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your foretaste of another, warmer world?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">'Tis said that all ambitious louts who dare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Aspire to Senatorial fame receive it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In some such fashion, though I don't believe it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Still, you'll suppose that this has all occurred.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If in that Upper House you e'er arise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trembly and hot, to speak your maiden word—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Walls, desks, floor, ceiling to your failing eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Seeming to blend, and Senators like flies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To spin about in space! Rash man, forbear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To cherish your accurst ambition! Sir,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your breeding and your character confer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Small right to breathe in that expanded air.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For toads to perch with eagles is to err.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pray Heaven to send contentment with your station</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bar you from the hauls of legislation.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The toga, if you win it, scarce will serve</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To cover up the stripes (where are the stars?)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which to a fertile fancy seem to curve</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Round you like shadows of the prison bars.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Embezzlement, I'm told, exists in Mars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where sometimes an official will "convey"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And in "the shadow of the jail" abide</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Till it seems photographed upon his hide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shapes his gait, as if he dragged alway</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A ball-and-chain. Upon the Moon's far side</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dwells such a man, who knows not (goes the story)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which of the saints he is when out for glory.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-prediction" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Prediction</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When the skies are green with clover,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the cows are flying over;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the roses lose their fragrance ;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the ants are shiftless vagrants;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the peacocks pluck their tails.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the lion pares his nails;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When old ocean's roaring ridges</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Roll beneath iridium bridges;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When diseases and physicians</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quarrel; when the politicians</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go to work; when lawyers never</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fib no more again forever;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When we gather ice to burn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to eggs potatoes turn;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the pie-distended sleeper</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the nightmare keeps his peeper.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quick to round her up and mount her,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Field and Terry will "encounter."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When the whales, in battle order,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>March across our northern border;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the serpent of the sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is no longer known to be;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the cats intone in Latin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the lady ape wears satin ;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the vulture. Mortgage, perches</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nevermore upon the churches;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the sycophant despises</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arts by which the bird-louse rises</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Comfortably to the sky.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the smithy-haunting fly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sitting on the swelling bellows.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is no prouder than his fellows;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the mocking-bird eschews</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All of his assenting views.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor proclaims them out of season;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the poets learn to reason ;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When lieutenants damn the bullets</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Penetrating captains' gullets.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a major feels the pain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of his colonel's shattered brain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the best of human creatures</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is the most austere of preachers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the woman who's demurest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is the truest and the purest;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the Mississippi, yearning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For its native hills and turning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deftly backward in its bed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lays its mouth against its head;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the turtle-doves are cruel—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Field and Terry'll fight a duel.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="another-plan" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Another Plan</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Editor Owen, of San Jose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Commonly known as "our friend J. J.,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Weary of scribbling for daily bread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Weary of writing what nobody read,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slept one day at his desk and dreamed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That an angel before him stood and beamed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With compassionate eyes upon him there.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Editor Owen is not so fair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In feature, expression, form or limb</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But glances like that are familiar to him;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so, to arrive by the shortest route</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At his visitor's will he said simply: "Toot."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Editor Owen," the angel said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Scribble no more for your daily bread.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your intellect staggers and falls and bleeds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Weary of writing what nobody reads.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eschew now the quill—in the coming years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Homilize man through his idle ears.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go lecture!" "Just what I intended to do,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said Owen. The angel looked pained and flew.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Editor Owen, of San Jose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Commonly known as "our friend J. J.,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scribbling no more to supply his needs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Weary of writing what nobody reads.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Passes of life each golden year</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Speaking what nobody comes to hear.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-political-apostate" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Political Apostate</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Good friend, it is with deep regret I note</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The latest, strangest turning of your coat;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though any way you wear that mental clout</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The seamy side seems always to be out.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who could have thought that you would e'er sustain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Southern shotgun's arbitrary reign!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your sturdy hand assisting to replace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The broken yoke on a delivered race;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ballot's purity no more your care,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With equal privilege to dark and fair.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Yesterday a traitor, to To-day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You're constant but the better to betray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To-morrow. Your convictions all are naught</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the wild asses of the world of thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which, flying mindless o'er the barren plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perceive at last they've nothing so to gain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, turning penitent upon their track,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Economize their strength by flying back.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ex-champion of Freedom, battle-lunged,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No more, red-handed, or at least red-tongued,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brandish the javelin which by others thrown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clove Sambo's heart to quiver in your own!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Confess no more that when his blood was shed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you so sympathetically bled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bow that spanned the mutual cascade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was but the promise of a roaring trade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In offices. Your fingering now the trigger</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shows that you <i>knew</i> your Negro was a nigger!</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i>Ad hominem</i> this <i>argumentum</i> runs:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Peace!—let us fire another kind of guns.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I grant you, friend, that it is very true</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Blacks are ignorant—and sable, too.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What then? One way of two a fool must vote,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And either way with gentlemen of note</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose villain feuds the fact attest too well</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That pedagogues nor vice nor error quell.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fiercest controversies ever rage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Miltons and Salmasii engage.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No project wide attention ever drew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But it disparted all the learned crew.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As through their group the cleaving line's prolonged</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With fiery combatants each field is thronged.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In battle-royal they engage at once</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For guidance of the hesitating dunce.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Titans on the heights contend full soon—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On this side Webster and on that Calhoun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The monstrous conflagration of their fight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Startling the day and splendoring the night!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Both are unconquerable—<i>one</i> is right.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will't keep the pigmy, if we make him strong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From siding with a giant in the wrong?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Genius strikes for error, who's afraid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To arm poor Folly with a wooden blade?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Rabelais, you knew it all!—your good</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And honest judge (by men misunderstood)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knew to be right there was but one device</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Less fallible than ignorance—the dice.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The time must come—Heaven expedite the day!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When all mankind shall their decrees obey,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And nations prosper in their peaceful sway.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="tinker-dick" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Tinker Dick</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Good Parson Dickson preached, I'm told,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A sermon—ah, 'twas very old</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And very, very, bald!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twas all about—I know not what</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was about, nor what 'twas not.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"A Screw Loose" it was called.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Whatever, Parson Dick, you say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The world will get each blessed day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Still more and more askew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fall apart at last. Great snakes!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What skillful tinker ever takes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His tongue to turn a screw?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-peaceful-community" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Peaceful Community</h3>
				<p>
					<span>With lifted hands, Lone Mountain's giant cross</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Stands in the sky against the Western splendor!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(A ship beyond is playing pitch-and-toss ;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She hugs—ships all are feminine in gender—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shore, then fickly turns away to find</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Another shore to suit her altered mind.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>About the foot of that tall rood are spread</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The simple mound and pompous mausoleum—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Three several republics of the dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whose citizens love peace. You'll never see 'em</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Assail a street-car passenger with stones,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor brain a woman with their marrow bones.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Not even in Potter's Field the pauper crew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">E'er go on strike to get a fair division</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of monumental fame. (If they but knew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Their barren paddock is a Field Elysian,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Compared with many an historic place.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where royal odors leg it into space.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The dead intimidate no Sandlot Judge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor was it ever their besetting sin to</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scare burly Sheriffs. Faith! I'd not begrudge</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That cross the necks if it were fashioned into</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A double gibbet, on one arm to bear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A rioter, on t'other one a Mayor.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Long live the dead! Since they prefer to live</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Within the law, it is a monstrous pity</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That early legislation did not give</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1"><em>Them</em> the authority to rule this city.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here's to their health! and may their tribe increase—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Recruited from the Judges and Police.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="with-a-book" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">With a Book</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Words shouting, singing, smiling, frowning—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Sense lacking.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, nothing, more obscure than Browning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Save blacking.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-competitor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Competitor</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Mrs. Frona Eunice Wait,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My legs are not so very straight ;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My spine, I'm sorry to observe.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Maintains a most rebellious curve;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My neck is skinny, and my bust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would justify a husband's trust.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But papa thinks his Mary Ann</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is built upon a gorgeous plan,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Mrs. Frona Eunice Wait,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I take the liberty to state</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Venuses would go on strike</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If ordered to be all alike;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For some are made for this, and some</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For that—you take 'em as they come.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But papa says: "My Mary Ann</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knocks out the whole damn caravan!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Mrs. Frona Eunice Wait,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They think in Greaserville I'm great—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They say in Greaserville: "You bet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She'll make them hens get up and get!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She's just a bird!" So when I clout</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Myself in cheese-cloth you look out!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For papa says: "My Mary Ann</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has win whenever she has ran."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Mrs. Frona Eunice Wait,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'm giving you the business straight:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Make any standards that you please</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath my cloth I'm just the cheese.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I care not what the artists say—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'm in it and I'm in to stay.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For papa says: "If Mary Ann</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will advertise she'll get a man."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Mrs. Frona Eunice Wait,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Head Venus-herder of the State,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Round up your girls. But Frona, dear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I think it very, very queer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That you yourself do not compete.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are you too plump or too petite?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My papa says: "Why, Mary Ann,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She's from Beërsheba to Dan!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="generosity" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Generosity</h3>
				<p>
					<span>By seven brave poems the Mikado shows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His royal fitness for the field of prose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of bold, bad bards to crown him brother-chief</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dick Watson Gilder spares one laurel leaf.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="bats-in-sunshine" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Bats in Sunshine</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Well, Mr. Kemble, you are called, I think,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A great divine, and I'm a great profane.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You as a Congregationalist blink</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some certain truths that I esteem a gain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And drop them in the coffers of my brain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pleased with the pretty music of their chink.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perhaps your spiritual wealth is such</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A golden truth or two don't count for much.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You say that you've no patience with such stuff</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As by Rinan is writ, and when you read</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Why <i>do</i> you read?) have hardly strength enough</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To hold your hand from flinging the vile screed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Into the fire. That were a wasteful deed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which you'd repent in sackcloth extra rough;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For books cost money, and I'm told you care</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To lay up treasures Here as well as There.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I fear, good, pious soul, that you mistake</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your thrift for toleration. Never mind:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rinan in any case would hardly break</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His great, strong, charitable heart to find</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The bats and owls of your myopic kind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pained by the light that his ideas make.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis Truth's best purpose to shine in at holes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where cower the Kembles, to confound their souls!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-word-to-the-unwise" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">A Word to the Unwise</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>Charles Main, of the firm of Main &amp; Winchester, has ordered a grand mausoleum for his plot in Mountain View Cemetery.</p>
						<cite>City Newspaper</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Charles Main, of Main &amp; Winchester, attend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With friendly ear the chit-chat of a friend</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who knows you not, yet knows that you and he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Travel two roads that have a common end.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We journey forward through the time allowed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I humbly bending, you erect and proud.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our heads alike will stable soon the worm—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The one that's lifted, and the one that's bowed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You in your mausoleum shall repose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I where it pleases Him who sleep bestows;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What matter whether one so little worth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall stain the marble or shall feed the rose?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Charles Main, I had a friend who died one day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A metal casket held his honored clay.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of cyclopean architecture stood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The splendid vault where he was laid away.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A dozen years, and lo! the roots of grass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had burst asunder all the joints; the brass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The gilded ornaments, the carven stones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lay tumbled all together in a mass.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A dozen years! That taxes your belief.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Make it a thousand if the time's too brief.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">'Twill be the same to you; when you are dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You cannot even count your days of grief.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Suppose a pompous monument you raise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till on its peak the solar splendor blaze</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">While yet about its base the night is black;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But will it give your glory length of days?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Say, when beneath your rubbish has been thrown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some rogue to reputation all unknown—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Men's backs being turned—should lift his thieving hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Efface your name and substitute his own.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Whose then would be the monument? To whom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would be the fame? Forgotten in your gloom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your very name forgotten—ah, my friend,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The name is all that's rescued by the tomb.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For memory of worth and work we go</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To other records than a stone can show.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">These lacking, naught remains; with these</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stone is needless for the world will know.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then build your mausoleum if you must,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And creep into it with a perfect trust;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But in the twinkling of an eye the plow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall pass without obstruction through your dust.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Another movement of the pendulum,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, lo! the desert-haunting wolf shall come,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And, seated on the spot, shall howl by night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O'er rotting cities, desolate and dumb.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-the-platform" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">On the Platform</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When Dr. Bill Bartlett stepped out of the hum</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Mammon's distracting and wearisome strife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To stand and deliver a lecture on "Some</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Conditions of Intellectual Life,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I cursed the offender who gave him the hall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To lecture on any conditions at all!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But he rose with a fire divine in his eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Haranguing with endless abundance of breath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till I slept; and I dreamed of a gibbet reared high,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Dr. Bill Bartlett was dressing for death.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I thought in my dream: "These conditions, no doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are bad for the life he was talking about."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So I cried (pray remember this all was a dream):</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"Get off of the platform!—it isn't the kind!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But he fell through the trap, with a jerk at the beam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And wiggled his toes to unburden his mind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, O, so bewitching the thoughts he advanced,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I clung to his ankles, attentive, entranced!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="judge-not" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Judge Not</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To foreigners in San Francisco, greeting.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When you see a labor-leader fiercely beating</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The air with all his fingers to betoken</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His view of this or that ere yet 'tis spoken,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When you see him, as in dancing, foot it featly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To manifest dissent the more completely,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When you hear him in a tempest of emotion</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deflate himself of some unpeaceful notion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don't prophesy a blazing revolution ;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don't drag the guillotine from its seclusion;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don't whistle up a storm of blood and thunder,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fill the world with horror, fear and wonder!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He's dreadful in defining his position,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He's terrible in threatening sedition—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a Past Grand Master of Submission.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="desperation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Desperation</h3>
				<p>
					<span>My days all are wasted in vainly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Contesting the field against Fate;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My nights with remorses insanely</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are swarming, and spectres of hate.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"O for rest! O for peace!" I cry madly—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"Let me fall, for I faint in the strife.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be dead, to be dead, I'd give gladly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All, all that I have, except life."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-dog" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To Dog</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Pervading pest! Old Adam, when he saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thy prime progenitor, I doubt not, swore</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And kicked the curst kioodle from the door.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though now thy whelpage we protect by law.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In faith, thou must have been a beastly, raw,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Uncultivated monster many score</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Immemorable centuries before</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy rigor was by breeding made to thaw.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How racy of the soil thou must have been!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Indigenous and close to nature's heart!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How strong thy jaw-lock, habits how unclean,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And what a sink of infamy thy heart!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It may be, though, thou wert created upright.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If Man (the angels' care) could fall, a pup might.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-grabber" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To a Grabber</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If, Prentiss Maslin, you would kindly leave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A coin or two of what the State has hoarded</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We'd think it generous of you ; for we've</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But just begun our fortunes to retrieve,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Having lost all our treasury afforded</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To certain robbers, who, departing, left</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Us <em>you</em> as a memorial of the theft.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Memorial? Bless you! you're the very thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Incarnate—and by no means any cleaner</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For incarnation. Sir, you are the king</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of crimes, grown great and proud remembering</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When you were young and but a misdemeanor.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let lesser souls be ravenous of pelf.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He scorns the gains of greed who's greed itself.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What! shall a firework covetously yearn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">While splendoring the skies—a gorgeous rocket</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where golden constellations grandly burn—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To take the earth along ? 'Tis sad to learn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That even the robe of glory has a pocket.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In you, alas! I'd fondly hoped to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One man that loved himself unselfishly.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="memorial-day" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Memorial Day</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The bands have played, the singers finished singing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flags done flapping and the bells done ringing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hereditary candidates have spoken;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their tongues are silent and their hearts are broken—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Barnes, Shortridge, Salomon-in-all-his-glory,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With wounds (their mouths) no longer wide and gory—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Healed by the touch of time; for even orations</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must sometimes come to end if one have patience.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And still in spite of all the din infernal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of every "General" and "Judge" and "Colonel,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our grand old heroes sleep in peace eternal!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-dampened-ardor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Dampened Ardor</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Chinatown at Bakersfield</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was blazing bright and high;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flames to water would not yield,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though torrents drenched the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And drowned the ground for miles around—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The houses were so dry.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then rose an aged preacher man</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whom all did much admire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who said: "To force on you my plan</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I truly don't aspire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But streams, it seems, might quench these beams</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If turned upon the fire."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The fireman said: "This hoary wight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His folly dares to thrust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On <i>us</i>! 'Twere well he felt our might—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nay, he shall feel our must!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With jet of wet and small regret</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They laid that old man's dust.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="adair-welcker-poet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Adair Welcker, Poet</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Swan of Avon died—the Swan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Sacramento'll soon be gone;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when his death-song he shall coo,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stand back, or it will kill you too.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-word-warrior" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To a Word-Warrior</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Frank Pixley, you, who kiss the hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That strove to cut the country's throat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Cannot forgive the hands that smote</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Applauding in a distant land,—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Applauding carelessly, as one</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The weaker willing to befriend</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Until the quarrel's at an end,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then learn by whom it was begun.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When North was pitted against South</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Non-combatants on either side</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In calculating fury vied,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fought their foes by word of mouth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That devil's-camisade you led</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With formidable feats of tongue.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Upon the battle's rear you hung—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With Samson's weapon slew the dead!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So hot the ardor of your soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That every fierce civilian came,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His torch to kindle at your name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or have you blow his cooling coal.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Men prematurely left their beds</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And sought the gelid bath—so great</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The heat and splendor of your hate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Englishmen and "Copperheads."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>King Liar of deceitful men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For imposition doubly armed!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The patriots whom your speaking charmed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You stung to madness with your pen.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There was a certain journal here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Its English owner growing rich—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your hand the treason wrote for which</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A mob cut short its curst career.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If, Pixley, you had not the brain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To know the true from false, or you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To Truth had courage to be true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And loyal to her perfect reign;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If you had not your powers arrayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To serve the wrong by tricksy speech,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor pushed yourself within the reach</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of retribution's accolade,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I had not had the will to go</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Outside the olive-bordered path</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of peace to cut the birch of wrath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And strip your body for the blow.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Behold how dark the war-clouds rise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">About the mother of our race!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The lightnings gild her tranquil face</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And glitter in her patient eyes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Her children throng the hither flood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And lean intent above the beach.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Their beating hearts inhibit speech</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With stifling tides of English blood.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Their skies, but not their hearts, they change</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who go in ships across the sea"—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Through all centuries to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The strange new land will still be strange.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Island Mother holds in gage</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The souls of sons she never saw;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Superior to law, the law</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of sympathetic heritage.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Forgotten now the foolish reign</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of wrath which sundered trivial ties.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A soldier's sabre vainly tries</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To cleave a spiritual chain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The iron in our blood affines,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though fratricidal hands may spill.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shall Hate be throned on Bunker Hill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet Love abide at Seven Pines?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-culinary-candidate" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Culinary Candidate</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A cook adorned with paper cap,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or waiter with a tray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May be a worthy kind of chap</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">In his way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But when we want one for Recorder,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, Mr. Walton, take our order.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-one-acquitted" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To One Acquitted</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Sir, you have killed a man and you are free—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That is, your hanging ne'er will come about ;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I've observed when jurors disagree</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">'Tis not as 'tis when other thieves fall out.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some honest men are in the case, no doubt.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But none come by their own—not even the chap</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose honest office is to spring the trap.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Some needy tramp, I think, is deputized</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That lowly function to perform—although</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I must confess I am not well advised</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Concerning that : I ne'er did undergo</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A hanging ; but if I am right you owe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The customary perquisite to some</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poor shivering and disappointed "bum."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If Californian hangmen are too proud</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To wear the clothing of the wretch they string,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the good ancient custom's been allowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To lapse ; or if so seldom murderers swing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In this good land that there is no such thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As custom in the case, the truth we reach is :</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You've forfeited your life, but not your breeches.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="content" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Content</h3>
				<p>
					<span>One day when Satan visited the earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In order that his eyes might feed his mirth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A loyal follower in sorrow said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Father of Falsehood, to our idols wed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We rear memorials in bronze and stone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To every kind of mortal greatness known ;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But not in this thy realm stands anywhere</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A monument or statue to declare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy greater glory." With the modest mien</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of violet that loves to bloom unseen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Satan replied: "All earthly fame I shun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Content with consciousness of work well done.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Statues to heroes! Mine the humble glory</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To tell on every pedestal the story."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="at-the-observatory" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">At the Observatory</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Mahatma Holden, Autocrat of Stars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fixed to the telescope his curious eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And waited for some great phenomenon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To seek his field of vision. Years and years,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Retiring early, rising with the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With patience proof against defeat, he still</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had sought some grand discovery ; and still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dogging the footsteps of endeavor, came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grim disappointment and in mockery</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Derided him. But now, even as he gazed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A great white light crept up the sky, and lo!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the telescope's illumined ken</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swam with a stately grace a noble orb.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And paused in mid-field of the mighty tube!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Mahatma Holden, Autocrat of Stars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was found next morn beneath the instrument,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Senseless and motionless as one that's dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"By some emotion overcome," said one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Sometime physician to the Ghug of Smat)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who with sharp stimulants and kindly words</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strove to revive him. Scarcely had the fresh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wholesome air saluted both his lungs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than, "Paper!" cried he—"paper, pen and ink!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quick, ere the glorious memory fades! Ah, friends,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not all in vain my vigils and my skill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To read the secrets of the upper deep :</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At last I'm famous and my name shall ring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Adown the centuries unlinked with theirs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My menials, Burnham, Bar⸺" he faltered then,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet with a mighty effort peaced himself.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mastered his spirit, calmly gazed about</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, with angelic dignity, explained:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I've found the Moon!" And it was even so.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-oleomargarine-man" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Oleomargarine Man</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Once—in the county of Marin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where milk is sold to purchase gin—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Renowned for butter and renowned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For fourteen ounces to the pound—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A bull stood watching every turn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Mr. Wilson with a churn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As that deigning worthy stalked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About him, eying as he walked,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>El Toro's sleek and silken hide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His neck, his flank and all beside;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thinking with secret joy: "I'll spread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That mammal on a slice of bread!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Soon Mr. Wilson's keen concern</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To get the creature in his churn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unhorsed his caution—made him blind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the fell vigor of bullkind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till, filled with valor to the teeth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He drew his dasher from its sheath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bravely brandished it; the while</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He smiled a dark, portentous smile;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A deep, sepulchral smile; a wide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And open smile, which, at his side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The churn to copy vainly tried;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A smile so like the dawn of doom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That all the field was palled in gloom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the trees within a mile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As tribute to that awful smile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made haste, with loyalty discreet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fling their shadows at his feet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then rose his battle-cry: "I'll spread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That mammal on a slice of bread!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To such a night the day had turned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Taurus dimly was discerned.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He wore so meek and grave an air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It seemed as if, engaged in prayer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This thunderbolt incarnate had</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No thought of anything that's bad:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This concentrated earthquake stood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gave his mind to being good.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lightly and low he drew his breath—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This magazine of sudden death!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All this the thrifty Wilson's glance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Took in, and, crying, "Now's my chance!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the bull he sprang amain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To put him in his churn. Again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rang out his battle-yell: "I'll spread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That mammal on a slice of bread!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sing, Muse, that battle-royal—sing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The deeds that made the region ring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blows, the bellowing, the cries,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dust that darkened all the skies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The thunders of the contest, all—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay, none of these things did befall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A yell there was—a rush—no more:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>El Toro, tranquil as before,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still stood there basking in the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor of his legs had shifted one—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stood there and conjured up his cud</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And meekly munched it. Scenes of blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had little charm for him. His head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He merely nodded as he said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I've spread that butterman upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A slice of Southern Oregon."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-genesis-of-crime" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Genesis of Crime</h3>
				<p>
					<span>God said, "Let there be Crime," and the command</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brought Satan, leading Stoneman by the hand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Why, that's Stupidity, not Crime," said God—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Bring what I ordered." Satan with a nod</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Replied, "This is <i>one</i> element—when I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The <i>other</i>—Opportunity—supply</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In just equivalent, the two'll affine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in a chemical embrace combine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Crime result—for Crime can only be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stupiditate of Opportunity."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So leaving Stoneman (not as yet endowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With soul) in special session on a cloud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nick to his sooty laboratory went,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Returning soon with t'other element.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Here's Opportunity," he said, and put</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pen, ink, and paper down at Stoneman's foot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He seized them—Heaven was filled with fires and thunders,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Crime was added to Creation's wonders!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="llewellen-powell" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Llewellen Powell</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Villain, when the word is spoken,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And your chains at last are broken</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When the gibbet's chilling shade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ceases darkly to enfold you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the angel who enrolled you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As a master of the trade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of assassination sadly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Blots the record he has made,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And your name and title paints</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the calendar of saints;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the devils, dancing madly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the midmost Hell, are very</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Multitudinously merry—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then beware, beware, beware!—-</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nemesis is everywhere!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You shall hear her at your back,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And, your hunted visage turning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fancy that her eyes are burning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a tiger's on your track!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You shall hear her in the breeze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whispering to summer trees.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You shall hear her calling, calling</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To your spirit through the storm</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When the giant billows form</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the splintered lightning, falling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down the heights of Heaven, appalling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Splendors all the tossing seas!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On your bed at night reclining,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stars into your chamber shining</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As they roll around the Pole,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>None their purposes divining,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shall appear to search your soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to gild the mark of Cain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That burns into your tortured brain!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the dead man's eyes shall ever</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Meet your own wherever you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Desperate, shall turn you to,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you shall escape them never!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>By your heritage of guilt;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the blood that you have spilt;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the Law that you have broken;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the terrible red token</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That you bear upon your brow;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the awful sentence spoken</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And irrevocable vow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which consigns you to a living</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death and to the unforgiving</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Furies who avenge your crime</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the periods of time;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By that dread eternal doom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hinted in your future's gloom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As the flames infernal tell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of their power and perfection</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In their wavering reflection</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On the battlements of Hell;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the mercy you denied,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I condemn your guilty soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In your body to abide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like a serpent in a hole!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-sunset-gun" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Sunset Gun</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Off Santa Cruz the western wave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was crimson as with blood:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sun was sinking to his grave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beneath that angry flood.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sir Walter Turnbull, brave and stout,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Then shouted, "Ho! lads; run—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The powder and the ball bring out</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To fire the sunset gun.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"That punctual orb did ne'er omit</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To keep, by land or sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its every engagement; it</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shall never wait for me."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Behold the black-mouthed cannon stand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ready with charge and prime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lanyard in the gunner's hand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sir Walter waits the time.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The glowing orb sinks in the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And clouds of steam aspire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then fade, and the horizon's free.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sir Walter thunders: "Fire!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The gunner pulls—the lanyard parts</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And not a sound ensues.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The beating of ten thousand hearts</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was heard at Santa Cruz!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Off Santa Cruz the western wave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was crimson as with blood;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sun, with visage stern and grave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Came back from out the flood.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-viduate-dame" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The "Viduate Dame"</h3>
				<p>
					<span>'Tis the widow of Thomas Blythe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And she goeth upon the spree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And red are cheeks of the bystanders</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For her acts are light and free.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In a seven-ounce costume</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The widow of Thomas Blythe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Y-perched high on the window ledge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The difficult can-can tryeth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ten constables they essay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To bate the dame's halloing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the widow of Thomas Blythe</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Their hands are overflowing,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And they cry: "Call the National Guard</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To quell this parlous muss—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For all of the widows of Thomas Blythe</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are upon the spree and us!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O long shall the eerie tale be told</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By that posse's surviving tithe;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with tears bedewed he'll sing this rude</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ball`d of the widow of Thomas Blythe.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="four-of-a-kind" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Four of a Kind</h3>
				<section id="four-of-a-kind-1">
					<h4 epub:type="title se:name.person">Robert F. Morrow</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Dear man! although a stranger and a foe</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To soft affection's humanizing glow;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Although untaught how manly hearts may throb</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With more desires than the desire to rob;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Although as void of tenderness as wit,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And owning nothing soft but Maurice Schmitt;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Although polluted, shunned and in disgrace,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You fill me with a passion to embrace!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Attentive to your look, your smile, your beck,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I watch and wait to fall upon your neck.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lord of my love, and idol of my hope,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You are my Valentine, and I'm</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="right">
							<b>A Rope.</b>
						</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="four-of-a-kind-2">
					<h4 epub:type="title se:name.person">Alfred Clarke Jr.</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Illustrious son of an illustrious sire—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Entrusted with the duty to cry "Fire!"</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And call the engines out, exert your power</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With care. When, looking from your lofty tower,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You see a ruddy light on every wall,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Pause for a moment ere you sound the call:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It may be from a fire, it may be, too,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>From good men's blushes when they think of you.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="four-of-a-kind-3">
					<h4 epub:type="title se:name.person">Judge Rutledge</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Sultan of Stupids! with enough of brains</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To go indoors in all uncommon rains,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But not enough to stay there when the storm</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Is past. When all the world is dry and warm,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In irking comfort, lamentably gay,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Keeping the evil tenor of your way,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>You walk abroad, sweet, beautiful and smug,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And Justice hears you with her wonted shrug,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lifts her broad bandage half-an-inch and keeps</span>
						<br/>
						<span>One eye upon you while the other weeps.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="four-of-a-kind-4">
					<h4 epub:type="title se:name.person">W.H.L. Barnes</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Happy the man who sin's proverbial wage</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Receives on the instalment plan—in age.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For him the bulldog pistol's honest bark</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Has naught of terror in its blunt remark.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He looks with calmness on the gleaming steel—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>If e'er it touched his heart he did not feel:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Superior hardness turned its point away,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Though urged by fond affinity to stay;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His bloodless veins ignored the futile stroke,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And moral mildew kept the cut in cloak.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Happy the man, I say, to whom the wage</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of sin has been commuted into age.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Yet not <i>quite</i> happy—hark, that horrid cry!—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>His cruel mirror wounds him in the eye!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="reconciliation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Reconciliation</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Stanford and Huntington, so long at outs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kissed and made up. If you have any doubts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dismiss them, for I saw them do it, man;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then—why, then I clutched my purse and ran.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-vision-of-climate" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Vision of Climate</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I dreamed that I was poor and sick and sad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Broken in hope and weary of my life;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My ventures all miscarrying—naught had</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For all my labor in the heat and strife.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And in my heart some certain thoughts were rife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of an unsummoned exit. As I lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Considering my bitter state, I cried:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Alas! that hither I did ever stray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Better in some fair country to have died</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than live in such a land, where Fortune never</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Unless he be successful) crowns Endeavor."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then, even as I lamented, lo! there came</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A troop of Presences—I knew not whence</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor what they were: thought cannot rightly name</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What's known through spiritual evidence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Reported not by gross material sense.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Why come ye here?" I seemed to cry (though naught</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My sleeping tongue did utter) to the first—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"What are ye?—with what woful message fraught?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ye have a ghastly look, as ye had burst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some sepulcher in memory. Weird creatures,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'm sure I'd know you if ye had but features."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Some subtle organ noted the reply</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(Inaudible to ear of flesh the tone):</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"The Finest Climate in the World am I,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From Siskiyou to San Diego known—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From the Sierra to the sea. The zone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Called semi-tropical I've pulled about</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And placed it where it does most good, I trust.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I shake my never-failing bounty out</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Alike upon the just and the unjust."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"That's very true," said I, "but when 'tis shaken</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My share by the unjust is ever taken."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Permit me," it resumed, "now to present</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My eldest son, the Champagne Atmosphere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And others to rebuke your discontent—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Mammoth Squash, Strawberry All the Year,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The fair No Lightning—flashing only here—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Wholesome Earthquake and Italian Sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With its Unstriking Sun; and last, not least,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Compos Mentis Dog. Now, ingrate, try</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To bring a better stomach to the feast:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Nature makes a dance and pays the piper,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To be unhappy is to be a viper!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Why, yet," said I, "with all your blessings fine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(And Heaven forbid that I should speak them ill)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I yet am poor and sick and sad. Ye shine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With more of splendor than of heat: for still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Although my will is warm, my bones are chill."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Then warm you with enthusiasm's blaze—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fortune waits not on toil," they cried; "O then</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Join the wild chorus clamoring our praise—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Throw up your beaver and throw down you pen!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Begone!" I shouted. They bewent, a-smirking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And I, awakening, fell straight a-working.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-mass-meeting" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A "Mass" Meeting</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It was a solemn rite as e'er</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was seen by mortal man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The celebrants, the people there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Were all Republican.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There Estee bent his grizzled head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And General Dimond, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And one—'twas Reddick, some one said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though no one clearly knew.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I saw the priest, white-robed and tall</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(Assistant, Father Stow)—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was the pious man men call</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dan Burns of Mexico.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, 'twas a high and holy rite</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As any one could swear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"What does it mean?" I asked a wight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who knelt apart in prayer.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"A mass for the repose," he said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"Of Colonel Markham's"—"What,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is gallant Colonel Markham dead?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">'Tis sad, 'tis sad, God wot!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"A mass"—repeated he, and rose</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To go and kneel among</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The worshipers—"for the repose</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Colonel Markham's tongue."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-new-dennis" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The New Dennis</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Lo! Kearney, rising on his hinder legs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For higher rates of freight and passage begs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Time was when Dennis talked another way—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because he drove an opposition dray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus, soon or late, to override the laws</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All common carriers make common cause,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pool the foul issues of their dirty lungs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lick each other with fraternal tongues.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crocker and Kearney, men of equal leather,</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i xml:lang="la">Arcades ambo</i>—they are pigs together.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-rational-anthem" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Rational Anthem</h3>
				<p>
					<span>My country, 'tis of thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweet land of felony,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of thee I sing—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Land where my fathers fried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Young witches and applied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whips to the Quaker's hide</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And made him spring.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My knavish country, thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Land where the thief is free.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Thy laws I love ;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I love thy thieving bills</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That tap the people's tills ;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I love thy mob whose will's</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">All laws above.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let Federal employees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rings rob all they please,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The whole year long.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let office-holders make</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their piles and judges rake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our coin. For Jesus' sake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Let's <em>all</em> go wrong!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="incivism" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Incivism</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"He's no good citizen!" the crowd</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of politicians cries aloud.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"How so?" says one.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="right">"Because—why, curse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The man! while we deplete his purse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some air contentedly he hums,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or twiddles his incivic thumbs."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"What more could you desire?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="right">"The whelp!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We want him to stand in and help."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"<em>Two</em> crowds contend, his purse to twist</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Away—pray which should he assist?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"It matters not whose hand unsacks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His shekels, for we all go snacks."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="famine-in-prosperity" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Famine in Prosperity</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Two monks upon a field of battle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Observed some lean and hungry cattle.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said one: "But little feed is growing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where Death so lately has been mowing."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Replied the other, gravely eying</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The piles of dead about them lying:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"All flesh is grass—I'm quite confounded</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That cows should starve by hay surrounded."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-epigrammatist" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Epigrammatist</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Once Hector Stuart in his tersest mood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Took up his pencil. "By the holy rood!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He cried, "I'll write an epigram." He did-</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay, by the holy <em>mile</em> his pencil slid.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="figleaf" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Figleaf</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>(A Definition)</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>An artist's trick by which the Nude's</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Protected from the eyes of prudes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which else with their peculiar flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Might scorch the canvass in its frame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or melt the bronze, or burn to lime</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The marble, in a minute's time.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For sparks are sometimes seen to dance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where falls a dame's offended glance,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And little curls of smoke to rise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From fingers veiling virgin eyes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O prudes I know you,—once you made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Among us here a fool crusade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against some casts from the antique,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Great, naked, natural and Greek,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whereto you flocked, a prurient crush,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And diligently tried to blush,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Half strangled in the vain attempt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till some one (may the wretch be hemped!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Depressed his lordly length of ear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your loud lubricity to hear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then took his chisel up and dealt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At Art a blow below the belt.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Insulted, crimson with the shame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her cheeks aglow, her eyes aflame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The goddess spread her pinions bright,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sprang, and the town was left in night</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Since then in vain the painter toils:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His canvass still repels the oils.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In vain with melancholy sighs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His burin the engraver plies;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lines multiply beneath his hand—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their meaning none can understand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With stubborn clay and unsubdued.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sculptor shapes his fancies crude.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unable to refine the work,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And makes a god look like a Turk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To marble grown, or metal, still</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The monstrous image makes him ill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till, crazed with rage, the damaged lot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He breaks, or sells to Irving Scott.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="for-president-leland-stanford" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">For President, Leland Stanford</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Mahomet Stanford, with covetous stare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gazed on a vision surpassingly fair:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Far on the desert's remote extreme</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A mountain of gold with a mellow gleam</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reared its high pinnacles into the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The work of <i>mirage</i> to delude the eye.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pixley Pasha, at the Prophet's feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Piously licking them, swearing them sweet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ventured, observing his master's glance,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To beg that he order the mountain's advance.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mahomet Stanford exerted his will,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Commanding: "In Allah's name, hither, hill!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never an inch the mountain came.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mahomet Stanford, with face aflame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lifted his foot and kicked, alack!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pixley Pasha on the end of the back.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mollified thus and smiling free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He said: "Since the mountain won't come to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'll go to the mountain." With infinite pains,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Camels in caravans, negroes in trains,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Warriors, workmen, women, and fools,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Food and water and mining tools</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He gathered about him, a mighty array,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the journey began at the close of day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All night they traveled—at early dawn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Many a wearisome league had gone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Morning broke fair with a golden sheen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mountain, alas, was nowhere seen!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mahomet Stanford pounded his breast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pixley Pasha he thus addressed:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Dog of mendacity, cheat and slave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May jackasses sing o'er your grandfather's grave!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="for-mayor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">For Mayor</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O Abner Doble—whose "catarrhal name"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Budd of that ilk might envy—'tis a rough</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Rude thing to say, but it is plain enough</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your name is to be sneezed at: its acclaim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will "fill the speaking trump of future fame"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With an impeded utterance—a puff</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Suggesting that a pinch or two of snuff</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would clear the tube and somewhat disinflame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay, Abner Doble, you'll not get from me</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My voice and influence: I'll cheer instead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Some other man; for when my voice ascends a</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tall pinnacle of praise, and at high C</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sustains a chosen name, it shan't be said</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">My influence is naught but influenza.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-mine-for-reformers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Mine for Reformers</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When God resolved to make the world</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He gathered all the matter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Chaos that was mixed and whirled</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In unassorted scatter.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He separated that from this,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And tagged on each a label,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Naming all kinds of substances</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As far as he was able.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He lacked of learning, though, enough</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To execute his aim, for</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There still remained a lot of stuff</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He hadn't any name for.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And this (the world completed) lies</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Without concatenation—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All unassorted—and supplies</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ideals for all Creation.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-pickle" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">In Pickle</h3>
				<span>IN PICKLE</span>
				<br/>
				<p>
					<span>The journals say that the embalming done</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Garfield's body badly was begun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faultily finished all too soon—in short</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was of a most unsatisfactory sort.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unsatisfactory? How so? To whom?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has the long sullen silence of the tomb</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At last been brolcen? Is rebellion's head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reared in the subject province of the dead?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unsatisfactory, forsooth! Who'd wish</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To satisfy, in salting it, a fish?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With spices when the conscious cook supplies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The autumnal mince-meat for the winter pies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He makes no question if the meat prefer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clove, cinnamon or pepper, sage or myrrh.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"There was," says Chowder if a clam upbraid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"No thought of pleasing thee when I was made."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What! shall the dead with impudence complain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of how we've potted each inert remain?—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pickle criticise and even condemn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if the purpose were to pleasure them?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their cure they rightly canvass in disease;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We'll cure them after in what way we please.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With blazing eulogies in crowded halls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And mourning emblems blackening the walls;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With gorgeous funerals, both at the spot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where you were buried and where you were not—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dummy funeral's inutile show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fifty to manifest a dummy woe;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With black-ruled journals, selling all at twice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The customary uneventful price ;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With guarded tomb and monument as fine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As any light-house on the ocean line—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Garfield, if still you are dissatisfied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You might as profitably not have died.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So you're complaining—<i xml:lang="fr">vive la bagatelle!</i></span>
					<br/>
					<span>The brine, no doubt, was weak, and cheap as well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Got for a song an undertaker sang</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(We paid him for it through the nose—the pang</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More keen than all our sorrow.) Even so.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your bones that served us for a public show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Outlast already our unsalted woe.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="james-montague-poet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">James Montague, Poet</h3>
				<p>
					<span>'Tis said he wrote with wondrous ease,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And that is here conceded;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But anybody, if he please,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Can write such verse as he did.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Although for James 'twas easy quite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Another's difficulty might</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In self-defense be pleaded.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-cheating-preacher" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Cheating Preacher</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Munhall, to save my soul you bravely try,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Although, to save my soul, I can't say why.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis naught to you, to me however much—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why, bless it! you might save a million such</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet lose your own; for still the "means of grace"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That you employ to turn us from the place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the arch-enemy of souls frequented</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are those which to ensnare us he invented!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I do not say you utter falsehoods—I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would scorn to give to ministers the lie:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They cannot fight—their calling has estopped it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>True, I did not persuade them to adopt it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, Munhall, when you say the Devil dwells</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In all the breasts of all the infidels—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Making a lot of individual Hells</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In gentlemen instinctively who shrink</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From thinking anything that you could think,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You talk as I should if some world I trod</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where lying is acceptable to God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I don't at all object—forbid it Heaven!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That your discourse you temperately leaven</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With airy reference to wicked souls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cursing impenitent on glowing coals,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor quarrel with your fancy, blithe and fine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which represents the wickedest as mine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each ornament of style my spirit eases:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The subject saddens, but the manner pleases.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But when you "deal damnation round" 'twere sweet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To think hereafter that you did not cheat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deal, and let all accept what you allot 'em.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, blast you! you are dealing from the bottom!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-crocodile" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Crocodile</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, Peter Robertson, 'tis not for you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To blubber o'er Max Taubles for he's dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By Heaven! my hearty, if you only knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How better is a grave-worm in the head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than brains like yours—how far more decent, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A tomb in far Corea than a bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where Peter lies with Peter, you would covet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His happier state and, dying, learn to love it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In the recesses of the silent tomb</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No Maunderings of yours disturb the peace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your mental bag-pipe, droning like the gloom</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Hades audible, perforce must cease</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From troubling further; and that crack o' doom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your mouth, shaped like a long bow, shall release</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In vain such shafts of wit as it can utter—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ear of death can't even hear them flutter.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-american-party" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The American Party</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Oh, Marcus D. Boruck, me hearty,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I sympathize wid ye, poor lad!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man that's shot out of his party</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is mighty onlucky, bedad!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">An' the sowl o' that man is sad.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But, Marcus, gossoon, ye desarve it—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ye know for yerself that ye do,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For ye j'ined not intendin' to sarve it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But hopin' to make it sarve you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though the roll of its members wuz two.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The other wuz Pixley, an' "Surely,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ye said, "he's a kite that wall sail."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An' so ye hung till him securely,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Enactin' the role of a tail.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But there wuzn't the ghost of a gale!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But the party to-day has behind it</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A powerful backin', I'm told;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For just enough Irish have j'ined it</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(An' I'm m'anin' to be enrolled)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To kick ye out into the cold.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It's hard on ye, darlint, I'm thinkin'—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So young—so American, too—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wid bypassers grinnin' an' winkin',</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">An' sayin', wid ref'rence to you:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Get onto the murtherin' Joo!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Republicans never will take ye—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They had ye for many a year;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An' Dimocrats—angels forsake ye!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If ever ye come about here</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We'll brand ye and scollop yer ear!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="uncoloneled" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Uncoloneled</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Though war-signs fail in time of peace, they say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Two awful portents gloom the public mind:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All Mexico is arming for the fray</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Colonel Mark McDonald has resigned!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We know not by what instinct he divined</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The coming trouble—may be, like the steed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Described by Job, he smelled the fight afar.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Howe'er it be, he left, and for that deed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is an aspirant to the G.A.R.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When cannon flame along the Rio Grande</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A citizen's commission will be handy.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-gates-ajar" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Gates Ajar</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Day of Judgment spread its glare</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O'er continents and seas.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The graves cracked open everywhere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like pods of early peas.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Up to the Court of Heaven sped</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The souls of all mankind;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Republicans were at the head</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Democrats behind.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Reub. Lloyd was there before the tube</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Gabriel could call:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dead in Christ rise first, and Reub.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had risen first of all.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He sat beside the Throne of Flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As, to the trumpet's sound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Four statesmen of the Party Came</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And ranged themselves around—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Pure spirits shining like the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From taint and blemish free—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Great William Stow was there for one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And George A. Knight for three.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Souls less indubitably white</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Approached with anxious air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Judge Blake at head of them by right</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of having been a Mayor.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His ermine he had donned again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Long laid away in gums.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twas soiled a trifle by the stains</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of politicians' thumbs.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then Knight addressed the Judge of Heaven:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"Your Honor, would it trench</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On custom here if Blake were given</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A seat upon the Bench?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'Twas done. "Tom Shannon!" Peter cried.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He came, without ado,</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i>In forma pauperis</i> was tried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And was acquitted, too!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Stow rose, remarking: "I concur."</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lloyd added: "That suits <i>us</i>.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I move Tom's nomination, sir,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Be made unanimous."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-bully" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To a Bully</h3>
				<p>
					<span>They say, George Perry, you're a lawyer. Well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At least that's your profession, but in fact,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Law's like religion (though, the truth to tell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The likeness is not otherwise exact)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In this, that in them both, my learned brother,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Profession's one thing, practice quite another.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But you do practice, for the other day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I saw you mentioned in a case in court,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cross-questioning a witness. I must say</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You did it as a cat that loves to sport</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With an unworthy mouse all too unwilling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To accept the justice of repeated killing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This witness, so the tale is told to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fatigued of your attempt upon his life—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I mean his reputation—made him free</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With yours, affirming that you beat your wife.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If that is true (they say that it upset you)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She must be monstrous cowardly to let you!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You hold it right to torture men who come</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(Heaven knows unwillingly) to aid the law,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So that by terror of your tongue made dumb</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They can't tell rightly what they heard or saw,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Impeaching credibility," you call it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When, seeing an honest looking head, you maul it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Well, witnesses are fallible—involved</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sometimes in scandals; and 'tis true that they</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are factors in the problem to be solved,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The judge and jury led by what they say.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But lawyers—they are factors too, their problem</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Being foolish clients and how best to rob them.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They've more to say than witnesses, and more</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Important 'tis that they be truthful, too.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were't not, then, right the witness take the floor</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And mercilessly cross-examine <em>you</em>?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were truth your jewel (bless us! what a setting!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I've certain questions that would set you sweating!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, don't be fidgeting; to ask them here</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Were perilous, for I no license hold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be a blackguard; and no judge is near</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To jail you for replies too sharp and bold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Besides, it were no easy task to shame you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And till I'm paid a fee I'll not defame you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You see I lack advantages that you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Possess, and therefore cannot be so brave.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who has, and uses, them's respected; who</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Has not, yet bullies, is a scurril knave—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though, faith, the difference is narrow, very,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By which a knave's distinguished from a Perry.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You served, if rightly I remember, once</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A term in the State Legislature, where</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You figured merely as a harmless dunce,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Save when, ambitious, in the larger air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of rhetoric you held the floor a season</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To give yourself for sin sufficient reason.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thus a great bird whose nature is in doubt</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With difficulty rises from the earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His wide wings spreading with an effort out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And shows by his unconscionable girth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>E'er yet the agitated air insult your</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Resentful nose, he's but a glutted vulture.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Touching these matters I would fain inquire</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If I but had you on the witness-grill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over the slow but efficacious fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of cross-examination; and I'd kill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The worm with quite insensible gradation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And quench the fire with great deliberation.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What, you're no worse than other lawyers? Well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I never said you were, my little man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do you suppose I run this private Hell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For one small soul? 'Tis your entire clan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'm trying to barbecue, despite their pleadings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Get out, you brat! you hamper the proceedings!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-land-fight" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Land Fight</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Great Dewey, mightiest of men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To sink or take a ship,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shows the white flag and feather when</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He hears the guns of Grip.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Great Grip! Great Dewey! Oh, my heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">There's less tempestuous weather</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When they are leagues and leagues apart</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Than when they get together.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The air is full of uniform—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Gold lace with buttons blent!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then a voice succeeds the storm:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"I've downed that festive gent."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Long shall the tale be told by brave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And high-born cavaliers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And old Montojo from the grave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shall rise with all his ears.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="compliance" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Compliance</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Said Rockefeller, senior, to his boy:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Be good and you shall have eternal joy."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said Rockefeller, junior, to his dad:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I never do a single thing that's bad."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said Rockefeller, senior—long gone gray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In service at the altar: "Ever pray."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Rockefeller, junior, being bid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon his knees and neighbors ever did.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="arboriculture" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Arboriculture</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>Californians are asking themselves how Joaquin Miller will make the trees grow which he proposes to plant in the form of a Maltese cross on Goat Island, in San Francisco Bay.</p>
						<cite epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">New York Graphic</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>You may say they won't grow, and say they'll decay—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Say it again till you're sick of the say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Get up on your ear, blow your blaring bazoo</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hire a hall to proclaim it; and you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May stand on a stump with a lifted hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As a pine may stand or a redwood stand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stick to your story and cheek it through.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I point with pride to the far divide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the Snake from its groves is seen to glide—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Mariposa's arboreal suit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the shaggy shoulders of Shasta Butte,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the feathered firs of Siskiyou;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I swear as I sit on my marvelous hair—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I roll my marvelous eyes and swear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sneer, and ask where would your forests be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To-day if it hadn't been for me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then I rise tip-toe, with a brow of brass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a bully boy with an eye of glass;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I look at my gum sprouts, red and blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I say it loud and I say it low:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"They know their man and you bet they'll grow!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-holiday" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Holiday</h3>
				<p>
					<span>'Tis Master Fitch, the editor;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He takes an holiday.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now wherefore, venerable sir,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So resolutely gay?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He lifts his head, he laughs aloud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Odzounds! 'tis drear to see!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Because the Boodle-Scribbler crowd</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Will soon be far from me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Full many a year I've striven well</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To freeze the caitiffs out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By making this good town a Hell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But still they hang about.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"They maken mouths and eke they grin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At the dollar limit game;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they are holpen in that sin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By many a wicked dame.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"In sylvan bowers hence I'll dwell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My bruishd mind to ease.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Farewell, ye urban scenes, farewell!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hail, unfamiliar trees!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Forth Master Fitch did bravely hie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And all the country folk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Besought him that he come not nigh</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The deadly poison oak!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He smiled a cheerful smile (the day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was straightway overcast)—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The poison oak along his way</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was blighted as he passed!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="rejected" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Rejected</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When Dr. Charles O'Donnell died</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They sank a box with him inside.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The plate with his initials three</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was simply graven—"C.O.D."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That night two demons of the Pit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Adown the coal-hole shunted it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ten million million leagues it fell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alighting at the gate of Hell.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nick looked upon it with surprise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A night-storm darkening his eyes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"They've sent this rubbish, C.O.D.—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'll never pay a cent!" said he.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="judex-judicatus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Judex Judicatus</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Judge Armstrong, when the poor have sought your aid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be released from vows that they have made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In haste, and leisurely repented, you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As stern as Rhadamanthus (Minos too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Feacus) have drawn your fierce brows down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And petrified them with a moral frown!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With iron-faced rigor you have made them run</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gauntlet of publicity—each Hun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or Vandal of the public press allowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To throw their households open to the crowd</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bawl their secret bickerings aloud.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Wealth before you suppliant appears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bang! go the doors and open fly your ears!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blinds are drawn, the lights diminished burn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lest eyes too curious should look and learn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That gold refines not, sweetens not a life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of conjugal brutality and strife—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That vice is vulgar, though it gilded shine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the curve of a judicial spine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The veiled complainant's whispered evidence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The plain collusion and the no defense,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sealed exhibits and the secret plea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The unrecorded and unseen decree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The midnight signature and—<i>chink! chink! chink!</i>—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay, pardon, upright Judge, I did but think</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I heard that sound abhorred of honest men;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No doubt it was the scratching of your pen.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O California! long-enduring land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where Judges fawn upon the Golden Hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Proud of such service to that rascal thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As slaves would blush to render to a king—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Judges, of judgment destitute and heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of conscience conscious only by the smart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the recoil (so insight is enlarged)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of duty accidentally discharged;—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Invoking still a "song o' sixpence" from</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Scottish fiddle of each lusty palm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy Judges, California, skilled to play</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This silent music, through the livelong-day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perform obsequious before the rich,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And still the more they scratch the more they itch!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-the-wedding-of-an-aeronaut" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">On the Wedding of an Aëronaut</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Akronaut, you're fairly caught,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Despite your bubble's leaven:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of the skies a lady's eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Have brought you down to Heaven!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No more, no more you'll freely soar</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Above the grass and gravel:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Henceforth you'll walk—and she will chalk</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The line that you're to travel!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-hasty-inference" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Hasty Inference</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Devil one day, coming up from the Pit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All grimy with perspiration,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Applied to St. Peter and begged he'd admit</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Him a moment for consultation.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Saint showed him in where the Master reclined</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On the throne where petitioners sought him;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Both bowed, and the Evil One opened his mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Concerning the business that brought him:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"For ten million years I've been kept in a stew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Because you have thought me immoral;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And though I have had my opinion of you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You've had the best end of the quarrel.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"But now—well, I venture to hope that the past</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With its misunderstandings we'll smother;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you, sir, and I, sir, be throned here at last</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As equals, the one to the other."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Indeed!" said the Master (I cannot convey</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A sense of his tone by mere letters)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"What makes you presume you'll be bidden to stay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Up here on such terms with your betters?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Why, sure you can't mean it!" said Satan. "I've seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How Stanford and Crocker you've nourished,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Huntington—bless me! the three like a green</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Umbrageous great bay-tree have flourished.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They are fat, they are rolling in gold, they command</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All sources and well-springs of power;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You've given them houses, you've given them land—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Before them the righteous all cower."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"What of that?" "What of that?" cried the Father of Sin;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"Why, I thought when I saw you were winking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At crimes such as theirs that perhaps you had been</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Converted to my way of thinking."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-voluptuary" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Voluptuary</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Who's this that lispeth in the thickening throng</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which crowds to claim distinction in my song?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fresh from "the palms and temples of the South,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mixed aromas quarrel in his mouth:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of orange blossoms this the lingering gale,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that the odor of a spicy tale.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sir, in thy pleasure-dome down by the sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(No finer one did Kubla Khan decree)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where, Master of the Revels, thou dost stand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With joys and mysteries on either hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dost keep a poet to report the rites</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sing the tale of those Elysian nights?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faith, sir, I'd like the place if not too young.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'm no great bard, but—I can hold my tongue.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ad-cattonum" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Ad Cattonum</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I know not, Mr. Catton, who you are,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor very clearly why; but you go far</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To show that you are many things beside</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A Chilean Consul with a tempting hide;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But what they are I hardly could explain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without afflicting you with mental pain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your name (gods! what a name the muse to woo—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Suggesting cats, and hinting kittens, too!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Points to an origin—perhaps Maltese,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perhaps Angoran—where the wicked cease</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From fiddling, and the animals that grow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The strings that groan to the tormenting bow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Live undespoiled of their insides, resigned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To give their name and nature to mankind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With Chilean birth your name but poorly tallies;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The test is—Did you ever sell tamales?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It matters very little, though, my boy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If you're from Chile or from Illinois;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You can't, because you serve a foreign land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spit with impunity on ours, expand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cock-turkeywise, and strut with blind conceit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All heedless of the hearts beneath your feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fling falsehoods as a sower scatters grain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, for security, invoke disdain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sir, there are laws that men of sense observe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No matter whence they come nor whom they serve—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The laws of courtesy; and these forbid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You to malign, as recently you did,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As servant of another State, a State</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherein your duties all are concentrate;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Branding its Ministers as rogues—in short,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inviting cuffs as suitable retort.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Chileno or American, 'tis one—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of any land a citizen, or none—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If like a new Thersites here you rail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Loading with libels every western gale,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You'll feel the cudgel on your scurvy hump</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Impinging with a salutary thump.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twill make you civil or 'twill make you jump!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-national-guardsman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The National Guardsman</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I'm a gorgeous golden hero</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And my trade is taking life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hear the twittle-twittle-tweero</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of my sibillating fife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the rub-a-dub-a-dum</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of my big bass drum!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'm an escort strong and bold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Grand Army to protect.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My countenance is cold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And my attitude erect.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'm a Californian Guard</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And my banner flies aloft,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the stones are O, so hard!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And my feet are O, so soft!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-barking-weasel" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Barking Weasel</h3>
				<p>
					<span>You say, John Irish, Mr. Taylor hath</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A painted beard. Quite likely that is true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sure 'tis natural you spend your wrath</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On what has been least merciful to you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By Taylor's chin, if I am not mistaken,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You like a rat have recently been shaken.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To wear a beard of artificial hue</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">May be or this or that, I know not what;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, faith, 'tis better to be black-and-blue</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In beard from dallying with brush and pot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than to be so in body from the beating</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That hardy rogues get when detected cheating.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You're whacked about the mazzard rather more</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of late than any other man in town.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Certes your vulnerable back is sore</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And tender, too, your corrigible crown.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In truth your whole periphery discloses</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More vivid colors than a bed of posies!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You call it glory! Put your tongue in sheath!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Scars got in battle, even if on the breast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May be a shameful record if, beneath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A robber heart a lawless strife attest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>John Sullivan had wounds, and Paddy Ryan—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay, as to that, even Masten has, and Bryan.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'Tis willingly conceded you've a knack</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At holding the attention of the town;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The worse for you when you have on your back</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What did not grow there—prithee put it down!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For pride kills thrift, and you lack board and lodging,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even while the brickbats of renown you're dodging.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-rear-elevation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Rear Elevation</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">[He can speak with his eyes, his hands, arms, legs, body—nay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">with his very bones, for he turned the broad of his back upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">us in "Conrad," the other night, and his shoulder-blades</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">spoke to us a volume of hesitation, fear, submission,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">desperation—everything which could haunt a man at the moment</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">of inevitable detection.—<i>A "Dramatic Critic."</i>]</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Once Moses (in Scripture the story is told)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Entreated the favor God's face to behold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Compassion divine the petition denied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lest vision be blasted and body be fried.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet this much, the Record informs us, took place:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jehovah, concealing His terrible face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Protruded His rear from behind a great rock,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And edification ensued without shock.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So godlike Salvini, lest worshipers die,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Averting the blaze of his withering eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tempers his terrors and shows to the pack</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of feeble adorers the broad of his back.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fires of their altars, which, paled and declined</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before him, burn all the more brightly behind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O happy adorers, to care not at all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where fawning may tickle or lip-service fall!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-upper-san-francisco" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">In Upper San Francisco</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I heard that Heaven was bright and fair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And politicians dwelt not there.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'Twas said by knowing ones that they</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were in the Elsewhere—so to say.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So, waking from my last long sleep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I took my place among the sheep.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I passed the gate—Saint Peter eyed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Me sharply as I stepped inside.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He thought, as afterward I learned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I was Chris, the Unreturned.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The new Jerusalem—ah me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was a sorry sight to see!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The mansions of the blest were there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And mostly they were fine and fair;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But O, such streets!—so deep and wide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all unpaved, from side to side!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And in a public square there grew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A blighted tree, most sad to view.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From off its trunk the bark was ripped—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its very branches all were stripped!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>An angel perched upon the fence</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With all the grace of indolence.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Celestial bird," I cried, in pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"What vandal wrought this wreck? Explain."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He raised his eyelids as if tired:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"What is a Vandal?" he inquired.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"This is the Tree of Life. 'Twas stripped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By Durst and Siebe, who have shipped</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"The bark across the Jordan—see?—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sold it to a tannery."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Alas," I sighed, "their old-time tricks!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That pavement, too, of golden bricks—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"They've gobbled that?" But with a scowl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"You greatly wrong them," said the fowl:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"'Twas Gilleran did that, I fear—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Head of the Street Department here."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"What! what!" cried I—"you let such chaps</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come here? You've Satan, too, perhaps."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"We had him, yes, but off he went,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet showed some purpose to repent;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"But since your priests and parsons filled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The place with those their preaching killed"—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>(Here Siebe passed along with Durst,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Psalming as if their lungs would burst)—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"He swears his foot no more shall press</span>
					<br/>
					<span>('Tis cloven, anyhow, I guess)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Our soil. In short, he's out on strike—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But devils are not all alike."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lo! Gilleran came down the street,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pressing the soil with broad, flat feet!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="nimrod" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Nimrod</h3>
				<p>
					<span>There were brave men, some one has truly said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before Atrides (those were mostly dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behind him) and ere you could e'er occur</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Actaeon lived, Nimrod and Bahram-Gur.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In strength and speed and daring they excelled:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stag they overtook, the lion felled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, yes, great hunters flourished before you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And—for Munchausen lived—great talkers too.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There'll be no more; there's much to kill, but—well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i>You</i> have left nothing in the world to tell!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-new-decalogue" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The New Decalogue</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Have but one God: thy knees were sore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If bent in prayer to three or four.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Adore no images save those</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The coinage of thy country shows.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Take not the Name in vain. Direct</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy swearing unto some effect.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thy hand from Sunday work be held—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Work not at all unless compelled.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Honor thy parents, and perchance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their wills thy fortunes may advance.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Kill not—death liberates thy foe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From persecution's constant woe.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Kiss not thy neighbor's wife. Of course</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There's no objection to divorce.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To steal were folly, for 'tis plain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In cheating there is greater gain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Bear not false witness. Shake your head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And say that you have "heard it said."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Who stays to covet ne'er will catch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An opportunity to snatch.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ultra-crepidam" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Ultra Crepidam</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>I think there must be some misunderstanding regarding my reference to the Catholic Church in the Philippines in my address at the Stanford University.</p>
						<cite>Gen. Funston</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>A misunderstanding? Why, that's a great scandal!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So stick to the weapon you know how to handle.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tongue is a very uncertain convincer;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don't draw it at all—keep it in, keep it in, sir.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I never have heard it was any great labor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To dig out your meaning when swinging your sabre.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even dull Filipino (ah, green be the bed of him!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can manage to get it somehow through the head of him.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="censor-literarum" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Censor Literarum</h3>
				<p>
					<span>So, Parson Stebbins, you've released your chin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To say that here, and here, we press-folk ail.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis a great thing an editor to skin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And hang his faulty pelt upon a nail</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(If over-eared, it has, at least, no tail)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, for an admonition against sin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Point out its maculations with a rod,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And act, in short, the gentleman of God.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'Twere needless cruelty to spoil your sport</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By comment, critical or merely rude;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But you, too, have, according to report,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Despite your posing as a holy dude,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Imperfect spiritual pulchritude</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For so severe a judge. May't please the court,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We shall appeal and take our case at once</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before that higher court, a taller dunce.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sir, what were <i>you</i> without the press? What spreads</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The fame of your existence, once a week,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the Pacific Mail dock to the Heads,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Warning the people you're about to wreak</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Upon the human ear your Sunday freak?—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whereat the most betake them to their bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though some prefer to slumber in the pews</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And nod assent to your hypnotic views.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Unhappy man! can you not still your tongue</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When (like a luckless brat afflict with worms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By cruel fleas intolerably stung,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or with a pang in its small lap) it squirms?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still must it vulgarize your feats of lung?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No preaching better were, the sun beneath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If you had nothing there behind your teeth.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="borrowed-brains" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Borrowed Brains</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Writer folk across the bay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Take the pains to see and say—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All their upward palms in air:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Joaquin Miller's cut his hair!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hasten, hasten, writer folk—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the gutters rake and poke,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If by God's exceeding grace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You may hit upon the place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the barber threw at length</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Samson's literary strength.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Find it, find it if you can;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Happy the successful man!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He has but to put one strand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In his beaver's inner band</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his intellect will soar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As it never did before!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While an inch of it remains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He will noted be for brains,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And at last ('twill so befall)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fit to cease to write at all.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ye-fightynge-seventh" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Ye Fightynge Seventh</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It is the gallant Seventh—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It fyghteth faste and free!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God wot the where it fyghteth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I ne desyre to be.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Gonfalon it flyeth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Seeming a Flayme in Sky;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Bugel loud yblowen is,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which sayeth, Doe and dye!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And (O good Saints defende us</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Agaynst the Woes of Warr)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drawn Tongues are flashing deadly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To smyte the Foeman sore!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With divers kinds of Riddance</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The smoaking Earth is wet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all aflowe to seaward goe</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Torrents wide of Sweat!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Thunder of the Captens,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And eke the Shouting, mayketh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such horrid Din the Soule within</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The boddy of me quayketh!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Who fyghteth the bold Seventh?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What haughty Power defyes?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their Colonel 'tis they drubben sore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And dammen too his Eyes!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="indicted" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Indicted</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Dear Bruner, once we had a little talk</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(That is to say, 'twas I did all the talking)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About the manner of your moral walk:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How devious the trail you made in stalking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On level ground, your law-protected game—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Another's Dollar" is, I think, its name.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your crooked course more recently is not</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So blamable; for, truly, you have stumbled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On evil days; and 'tis your luckless lot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To traverse spaces (with a spirit humbled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Contrite, dejected and divinely sad)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where, 'tis confessed, the walking's rather bad.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Jordan, the song says, is a road (I thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It was a river) that is hard to travel;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Dublin, if you'd find it, must be sought</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Along a highway with more rocks than gravel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In difficulty neither can compete</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With that wherein you navigate your feet.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As once George Gorham said of Pixley, so</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I say of you: "The prison yawns before you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The turnkey stalks behind!" Now will you go?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or lag, and let that functionary floor you?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To change the metaphor—you seem to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Between Judge Wallace and the deep, deep sea!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="over-the-border" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Over the Border</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O, justice, you have fled, to dwell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In Mexico, unstrangled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lest you should hang as high as—well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">As Haman dangled.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>(I know not if his cord he twanged,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or the King proved forgiving.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis hard to think of Haman hanged,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And Haymond living.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yes, as I said: in mortal fear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To Mexico you journeyed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For you were on your trial here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And ill attorneyed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Law had long regarded you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As an extreme offender.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Religion looked upon you, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">With thoughts untender.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Press to you was cold as snow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For sin you'd always call so.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Politics you were <i>de trop</i>,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">In Morals also.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All this is accurately true</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And, faith! there might be more said;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But—well, to save your thrapple you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Fled, as aforesaid.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You're down in Mexico—that's plain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As that the sun is risen;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Daniel Burns, down there, his chain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Drags round in prison.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-an-insolent-attorney" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To an Insolent Attorney</h3>
				<p>
					<span>So, Hall McAllister, you'll not be warned—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My protest slighted, admonition scorned!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To save your scoundrel client from a cell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As loth to swallow him as he to swell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its sum of meals insurgent (it decries</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All wars intestinal with meats that rise)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You turn your scurril tongue against the press</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And damn the agency you ought to bless.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had not the press with all its hundred eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Discerned the wolf beneath the sheep's disguise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And raised the cry upon him, he to-day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would lack your company, and you would lack his pay.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Talk not of "hire" and consciences for sale—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You whose profession 'tis to threaten, rail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Calumniate and libel at the will</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of any villain who can pay the bill—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You whose most honest dollars all were got</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By saying for a fee "the thing that's not!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To you 'tis one, to challenge or defend;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clients are means, their money is an end.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In my profession sometimes, as in yours</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Always, a payment large enough secures</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A mercenary service to defend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The guilty or the innocent to rend.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But mark the difference, nor think it slight:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i>We</i> do not hold it proper, just and right;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of selfish lies a little still we shame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And give our villainies another name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hypocrisy's an ugly vice, no doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But blushing sinners can't get on without.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Happy the lawyer!—at his favored hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor truth nor decency the world demands.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Secure in his immunity from shame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His cheek ne'er kindles with the tell-tale flame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His brains for sale, morality for hire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In every land and century a licensed liar!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No doubt, McAllister, you can explain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How honorable 'tis to lie for gain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Provided only that the jury's made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To understand that lying is your trade.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A hundred thousand volumes, broad and flat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(The Bible not included) proving that,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have been put forth, though still the doubt remains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If God has read them with befitting pains.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No Morrow could get justice, you'll declare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If none who knew him foul affirmed him fair.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ingenious man! how easy 'tis to raise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An argument to justify the course that pays!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I grant you, if you like, that men may need</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The services performed for crime by greed,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grant that the perfect welfare of the State</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Requires the aid of those who in debate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As mercenaries lost in early youth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fine distinction between lie and truth—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who cheat in argument and set a snare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To take the feet of Justice unaware—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who serve with livelier zeal when rogues assist</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With perjury, embracery (the list</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is long to quote) than when an honest soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scorning to plot, conspire, intrigue, cajole,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reminds them (their astonishment how great!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He'd rather suffer wrong than perpetrate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I grant, in short, 'tis better all around</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That ambidextrous consciences abound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In courts of law to do the dirty work</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That self-respecting scavengers would shirk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What then? Who serves however clean a plan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By doing dirty work, he is a dirty man!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="accepted" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Accepted</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Charles Shortridge once to St. Peter came.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Down!" cried the saint with his face aflame;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"'Tis writ that every hardy liar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall dwell forever and ever in fire!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"That's what I said the night that I died,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sinner, turning away, replied.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"What! <i>you</i> said that?" cried the saint—"what! what!</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i>You</i> said 'twas so writ? Then, faith, 'tis <i>not!</i></span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'm a devil at quoting, but I begin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fail in my memory. Pray walk in."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-promised-fast-train" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Promised Fast Train</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I turned my eyes upon the Future's scroll</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And saw its pictured prophecies unroll.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I saw that magical life-laden train</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flash its long glories o'er Nebraska's plain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I saw it smoothly up the mountain glide.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"O happy, happy passengers!" I cried.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For Pleasure, singing, drowned the engine's roar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Hope on joyous pinions flew before.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then dived the train adown the sunset slope—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pleasure was silent and unseen was Hope.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Crashes and shrieks attested the decay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That greed had wrought upon that iron way.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The rusted rails broke down the rotting ties,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And clouds of flying spikes obscured the skies.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My coward eyes I drew away, distressed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fixed them on the terminus to-West,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where soon, its melancholy tale to tell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One bloody car-wheel wabbled in and fell!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="from-the-death-column" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">From the Death-Column</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Open wide, ye golden gates</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That lead to the heavenly shore:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our father suffered in passing through,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And mother weighs still more."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Our papa dear has gone to heaven</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make arrangements for eleven."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">"The winter's snow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Congealed his form.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">But now we know</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Our uncle's warm."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"We can but mourn our loss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though wretched was his life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death took him from the cross—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Erected by his wife."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Weep not, mother: little Will</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is gone to Upper Louisville."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-farmers-prayer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Farmer's Prayer</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O Lord, incline Thine ear unto our prayer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And preachers' intercession:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This strange discrimination is unfair—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">That's our impression.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Our neighbors all about have copious rains</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That fall on them like manna.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Send us the showers, Lord, and parch the plains</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Of Indiana.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Upon the just and unjust, sayest Thou,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thou'lt sprinkle without favor.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sin of promise-breaking, all allow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Could not be graver.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We're just, and still our whistles are not wet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And still 'tis growing hotter;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While every scamp in Michigan can get</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">His fill of water.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We ask but justice: treat us not with scorn;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our comfort make less chilly;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And those who pray for an advance in corn—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">O smite them silly!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let corn be plentiful, and cheap: our hops</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Look well without a shower;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We've sold our wheat: that profitable crop's</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Beyond Thy power.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="one-of-the-saints" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">One of the Saints</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Big Smith is an Oakland School Board man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he looks as good as ever he can;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he's such a cold and a chaste Big Smith</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That snowflakes all are his kin and kith.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherever his eye he chances to throw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The crystals of ice begin to grow;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the fruits and flowers he sees are lost</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the singeing touch of a sudden frost.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The women all shiver whenever he's near,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And look upon <i>us</i> with a look austere—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Effect of the Smithian atmosphere.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such, in a word, is the moral plan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the Big, Big Smith, the School Board man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When told that Madame Ferrier had taught</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i>Hernani</i> in school, his fist he brought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a trip-hammer down on his bulbous knee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he roared: "Her Nanny? By gum, we'll see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If the public's time she dares devote</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the educatin' of any dam goat!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"You do not entirely comprehend—</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i>Hernani's</i> a play," said his learned friend,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"By Victor Hugo—immoral and bad.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What's worse, it's French!" "Well, well, my lad,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said Smith, "if he cuts a swath so wide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'll have him took re'glar up and tried!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he smiled so sweetly the other chap</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thought that himself was a Finn or Lapp</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Caught in a storm of his native snows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a purple ear and an azure nose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Smith continued: "I never pursue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Immoral readin'." And that is true:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He's a saint of remarkably high degree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a mind as chaste as a mind can be;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But read!—the devil a word can he!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-military-incident" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Military Incident</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Dawn heralded the coming sun—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fort Douglas was computing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The minutes—and the sunrise gun</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was manned for his saluting.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The gunner at that firearm stood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The which he slowly loaded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When, bang!—I know not how it could,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But sure the charge exploded!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yes, to that veteran's surprise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The gun went off sublimely,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And both his busy arms likewise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Went off with it, untimely.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then said that gunner to his mate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(He was from Ballyshannon):</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Bedad, the sun's a minute late,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Accardin' to this cannon!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="substance-versus-shadow" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Substance Versus Shadow</h3>
				<p>
					<span>So, gentle critics, you would have me tilt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not at the guilty, only just at Guilt!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spare the offender and condemn Offense,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And make life miserable to Pretense!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Whip Vice and Folly—that is satire's use—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But be not personal, for <i>that's</i> abuse;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor e'er forget what, 'like a razor keen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wounds with a touch that's neither felt nor seen.'"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, friends, I venture, destitute of awe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To think that razor but an old, old saw,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A trifle rusty; and a wound, I'm sure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That's felt not, seen not, one can well endure.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go to! go to!—you're as unfitted quite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To give advice to writers as to write.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I find in Folly and in Vice a lack</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of head to hit, and for the lash no back;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whilst Pixley has a pow that's easy struck,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And though good Deacon Fitch (a Fitch for luck!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has none, yet, lest he go entirely free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God gave to him a corn, a heel to me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He, also, sets his face (so like a flint</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wonder grows that Pickering doesn't skin't)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With cold austerity, against these wars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On scamps—'tis Scampery that <i>he</i> abhors!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behold advance in dignity and state—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grave, smug, serene, indubitably great—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stanford, philanthropist! One hand bestows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In alms what t'other one as justice owes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rascality attends him like a shade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But closes, woundless, o'er my baffled blade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its limbs unsevered, spirit undismayed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faith! I'm for something can be made to feel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If, like Pelides, only in the heel.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fellow's self invites assault; his crimes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will each bear killing twenty thousand times!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Anon Creed Haymond—but the list is long</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of names to point the moral of my song.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rogues, fools, impostors, sycophants, they rise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They foul the earth and horrify the skies—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With Mr. Huntington (sole honest man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In all the reek of that rapscallion clan)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Denouncing Theft as hard as e'er he can!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-committee-on-public-morals" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Committee on Public Morals</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Senate met in Sacramento city;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On public morals it had no committee</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though greatly these abounded. Soon the quiet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was broken by the Senators in riot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now, at the end of their contagious quarrels,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There's a committee but no public morals.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-playwright" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Playwright</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Saint Peter, sitting at the Gate of Gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Looked idly down the cloudway and, behold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A soul ascending from this world of woe.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Head up, hands pocketed—serene and bold!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>(To souls, such pockets are, I know, denied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As in the flesh we wear on either side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But the dead rich—or else they wouldn't play—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With souls of perished pockets are supplied.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Ah, Harrison," the Saint said—"William Greer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twill do you little good to come, I fear ;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I've certain crows to pick with you—and, first,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You were a 'patron of the ring,' I hear."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nodding and smirking, said the soul : "That's right ;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nothing so charmed me as to see a fight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But pray observe that as a man of peace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Meek under challenge, I was 'out of sight'!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To this the Saint made answer: "Although gay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You were not reckless; but, my friend, they say</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You—what the devil was it that you did?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, once you wrote, I understand, a play.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"You had the right to do so, 'tis agreed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Ring and Stage are near akin, indeed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With you to write and Sullivan to act.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, sir, the play you wrote was 'Runnmymede'!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Well?" "Worst I ever saw!" The pride alurk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In authorship flashed forth, and like a dirk</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That seeks a heart the cutting answer came:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I guess you haven't seen my later work."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"What? you impenitent, you've written since?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Warder thundered, making William wince.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"Only to lie about my critics, please.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of liars—bar Sam Chamberlain—I'm Prince!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Saint drew back his great two-handed key</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, as the nude immortal turned to flee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Swung the big engine of his holy wrath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And smote him where the back forgets to be!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All Heaven resounded with the dreadful blow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Echo babbled of it down below!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To farthest reaches of the shoreless void</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Raced the receding sound-waves of his "O!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Rubbing the part with many a grimace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He said while hurtling Sheolward through space:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"Poor old Saint Peter!" and with a blue grin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Added: "That Paradise is a jay place."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-leader-of-the-minority" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Leader of the Minority</h3>
				<p>
					<span>He tolls them along through the wilderness dire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Ever in sight—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A clod by day and a pillar of fire-</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Water by night.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="california" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">California</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>The Chinaman's Assailant was allowed to walk quietly away, although the street was filled with pedestrians.</p>
						<cite>Newspaper</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Why should he not have been allowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To thread with peaceful feet the crowd</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which filled that Christian street?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Decalogue he had observed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Faith in Jesus had not swerved,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And scorning pious platitudes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He saw in the Beatitudes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A lamp to guide his feet.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He knew that Jonah downed the whale</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made no bones of it. The tale</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That Ananias told</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He swore was true. He had no doubt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Daniel laid the lions out.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In short, he had all holiness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All meekness and all lowliness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And was with saints enrolled.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'Tis true, some slight excess of zeal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sincerely to promote the weal</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of this most Christian state</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had moved him rudely to divide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The queue that was a pagan's pride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in addition certify</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Faith by making fur to fly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From pelt as well as pate?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But, Heavenly Father, thou dost know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That in this town these actions go</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For nothing worth a name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay, every editorial ass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To prove they never come to pass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will damn his soul eternally,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Although in his own journal he</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">May read the printed shame.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From bloody hands the reins of pow'r</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fall slack; the high-decisive hour</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Strikes not for liars' ears.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remove, O Father, the disgrace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That stains our California's face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And consecrate to human good</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The strength of her young womanhood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And all her golden years!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="george-c-perkins" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">George C. Perkins</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Running for Senator with clumsy pace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He stooped so low to win the foremost place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Fortune, tempted by a mark so droll,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sprang in and kicked him to the winning pole.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="de-young-a-prophecy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">De Young—A Prophecy</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Running for Senator with clumsy pace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He stooped so low, to win at least a place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Fortune, tempted by a mark so droll,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sprang in an kicked him to the winning pole.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-either" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To Either</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">Back further than</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">I know, in San</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Francisco dwelt a wealthy man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">So rich was he</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">That none could be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wise, good and great in like degree.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">'Tis true he wrought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">In deed or thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But few of all the things he ought;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">But men said: "Who</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Would wish him to?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Great souls are born to be, not do!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">One thing, indeed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">He did, we read,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which was becoming, all agreed:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Grown provident,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Ere life was spent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He built a mighty monument.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">For longer than</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">I know, in San</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Francisco lived a beggar man;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">And when in bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">They found him dead—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Just like the scamp!" the people said.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">He died, they say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">On the same day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His wealthy neighbor passed away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">What matters it</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">When beggars quit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their beats? I answer: Not a bit.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">They got a spade</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">And pick and made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A hole, and there the chap was laid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">"He asked for bread,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">'Twas neatly said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"He'll get not even a stone instead."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">The years rolled round:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">His humble mound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sank to the level of the ground;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">And men forgot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">That the bare spot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was like (and was) the beggar's lot.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">Forgotten, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Was t'other, who</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had reared the monument to woo</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Inconstant Fame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Though still his name</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shouted in granite just the same.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">That name, I swear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">They both did bear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The beggar and the millionaire.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">That lofty tomb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Then, honored—whom?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For argument here's ample room.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">I'll not debate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">But only state</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The scamp first claimed it at the Gate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">St. Peter, proud</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">To serve him, bowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And showed him to the softest cloud.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="disappointment" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Disappointment</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Senate woke; the Chairman's snore</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Was stilled, its echoes balking;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The startled members dreamed no more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Steele, who long had held the floor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Had suddenly ceased talking.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As, like Elijah, in his pride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">He to his seat was passing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Go up thou baldhead!" Reddy cried.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then six fierce bears ensued and tried</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To sunder him for "sassing."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Two seized his legs, and one his head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The fourth his trunk, to munch on;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fifth preferred an arm instead;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The last, with rueful visage, said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">"Pray what have <i>I</i> for luncheon?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then to that disappointed bear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Said Steele, serene and chipper,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"My friend, you shall not lack your share:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Look in the Treasury, and there</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">You'll find his other flipper."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-valley-of-the-shadow-of-theft" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Valley of the Shadow of Theft</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In fair Yosemite, that den of thieves</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wherein the minions of the moon divide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The travelers' purses, lo! the Devil grieves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His larger share as leader still denied.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>El Capitan, foreseeing that <i>his</i> reign</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">May be disputed too, beclouds his head.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The joyous Bridal Veil is torn in twain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the crêpe steamer dangles there instead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Vernal Fall abates her pleasant speed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And hesitates to take the final plunge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For rumors reach her that another greed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Awaits her in the Valley of the Sponge.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Brothers envy the accord of mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And peace of purpose (by the good deplored</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As honor among Commissioners) which bind</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That confraternity of crime, the Board.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Half-Dome bows its riven face to weep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But not, as formerly, because bereft:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prophetic dreams afflict him when asleep</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of losing his remaining half by theft.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ambitious knaves! has not the upper sod</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Enough of room for every crime that crawls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But you must loot the Palaces of God</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And daub your filthy names upon the walls?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="down-among-the-dead-men" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Down Among the Dead Men</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Within my dark and narrow bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I rested well, new-laid:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I heard above my fleshless head</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The grinding of a spade.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A gruffer note ensued and grew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To harsh and harsher strains:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The poet Welcker then I knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was "snatching" my remains.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"O Welcker, let your hand be stayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And leave me here in peace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of your revenge you should have made</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">An end with my decease."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Hush, Mouldyshanks, and hear my moan:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I once, as you're aware,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was eminent in letters—known</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And honored everywhere.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"My splendor made all Berkeley bright</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Sacramento blind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men swore no writer e'er could write</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like me—if I'd a mind.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"With honors all insatiate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With curst ambition smit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Too far, alas! I tempted fate—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I <i>published</i> what I'd writ!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Good Heaven! with what a hunger wild</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Oblivion swallows fame!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men who have known me from a child</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Forget my very name!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Even creditors with searching looks</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My face cannot recall;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My heaviest one—he prints my books—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Oblivious most of all.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"O I should feel a sweet content</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If one poor dun his claim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would bring to me for settlement,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And bully me by name.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"My dog is at my gate forlorn;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It howls through all the night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when I greet it in the morn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It answers with a bite!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"O Poet, what in Satan's name</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To me's all this ado?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will snatching me restore the fame</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That printing snatched from you?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Peace, dread Remains; I'm not about</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To do a deed of sin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I come not here to hale you out—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I'm trying to get in."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-last-man" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Last Man</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I dreamed that Gabriel took his horn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On Resurrection's fateful morn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lighting upon Laurel Hill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blew long, blew loud, blew high and shrill.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The houses compassing the ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rattled their windows at the sound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But no one rose. "Alas!" said he,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"What lazy bones these mortals be!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Again he plied the horn, again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deflating both his lungs in vain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then stood astonished and chagrined</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At raising nothing but the wind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At last he caught the tranquil eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of an observer standing by—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Last of mankind, not doomed to die.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To him thus Gabriel: "Sir, I pray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This mystery you'll clear away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why do I sound my note in vain?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why spring they not from out the plain?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where's Luning, Blythe and Michael Reese,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Magee, who ran the <i>Golden Fleece?</i></span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where's Asa Fisk? Jim Phelan, who</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was thought to know a thing or two</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of land which rose but never sank?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where's Con O'Conor of the Bank,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all who consecrated lands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of old by laying on of hands?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I ask of them because their worth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was known in all they wished—the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brisk boomers once, alert and wise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why don't they rise, why don't they rise?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The man replied: "Reburied long</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With others of the shrouded throng</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In San Mateo—carted there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dumped promiscuous, anywhere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In holes and trenches—all misfits—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mixed up with one another's bits:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One's back-bone with another's shin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A third one's skull with a fourth one's grin—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your eye was never, never fixed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon a company so mixed!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go now among them there and blow:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twill be as good as any show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see them, when they hear the tones,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Compiling one another's bones!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But here 'tis vain to sound and wait:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Naught rises here but real estate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I own it all and shan't disgorge.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don't know me? I am Henry George."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="arbor-day" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Arbor Day</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Hasten, children, black and white—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Celebrate the yearly rite.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every pupil plant a tree:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It will grow some day to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Big and strong enough to bear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A School Director hanging there.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-piute" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Piute</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Unbeautiful is the Piute!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Howe'er bedecked with bravery,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His person is unsavory—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of soap he's destitute.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He multiplies upon the earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In spite of all admonishing;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All censure his astonishing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And versatile unworth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Upon the Reservation wide</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We give for his inhabiting</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He goes a-jackass rabbiting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To furnish his inside.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The hopper singing in the grass</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He seizes with avidity:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He loves its tart acidity,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gobbles all that pass.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He penetrates the spider's veil,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Industriously pillages</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The toads' defenseless villages,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shadows home the snail.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He lightly runs to earth the quaint</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Red worm and, deftly troweling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He makes it with his boweling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Familiarly acquaint.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He tracks the pine-nut to its lair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Surrounds it with celerity,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Regards it with asperity—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Smiles, and it isn't there!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I wish he'd open up a grin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of adequate vivacity</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And carrying capacity</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To take his Agent in.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="fame" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Fame</h3>
				<p>
					<span>He held a book in his knotty paws,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And its title grand read he:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"The Chronicles of the Kings" it was,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By the History Companee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I'm a monarch," he said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(But a tear he shed)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"And my picter here you see.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Great and lasting is my renown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">However the wits may flout—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As wide almost as this blessed town"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(But he winced as if with gout).</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I paid 'em like sin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For to put me in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But it's O, and O, to be out!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="one-of-the-redeemed" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">One of the Redeemed</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Saint Peter, standing at the Gate, beheld</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A soul whose body Death had lately felled.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A pleasant soul as ever was, he seemed:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His step was joyous and his visage beamed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Good morning, Peter." There was just a touch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of foreign accent, but not overmuch.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Saint bent gravely, like a stately tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And said: "You have the advantage, sir, of me."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Rinan of Paris," said the immortal part—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"A master of the literary art.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I'm somewhat famous, too, I grieve to tell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As controversialist and infidel."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"That's of no consequence," the Saint replied,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Why, I myself my Master once denied.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"No one up here cares anything for that.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But is there nothing you were always at?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"It seems to me you were accused one day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of <i>something</i>—what it was I can't just say."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Quite likely," said the other; "but I swear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My life was irreproachable and fair."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Just then a soul appeared upon the wall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Singing a hymn as loud as he could bawl.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>About his head a golden halo gleamed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As well befitted one of the redeemed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A harp he bore and vigorously thumbed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strumming he sang, and, singing, ever strummed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His countenance, suffused with holy pride,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Glowed like a pumpkin with a light inside.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Ah! that's the chap," said Peter, "who declares:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Rinan's a rake and drunkard—smokes and swears.'</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Yes, that's the fellow—he's a preacher—came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From San Francisco. Mansfield was his name."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Do you believe him?" said Rinan. "Great Scott!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Believe? Believe the blackguard? Of course <i>not!</i></span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Just walk right in and make yourself at home.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And if he pecks at you I'll cut his comb.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"He's only here because the Devil swore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He wouldn't have him, for the smile he wore."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Resting his eyes one moment on that proof</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of saving grace, the Frenchman turned aloof,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And stepping down from cloud to cloud, said he:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Thank you, monsieur,—I'll see if he'll have <i>me</i>."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-critic" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Critic</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">[Apparently the Cleveland <i>Leader</i> is not a good judge of</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">poetry.—<i>The Morning Call</i>.]</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That from <i>you</i>, neighbor! to whose vacant lot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Each rhyming literary knacker scourges</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His cart-compelling Pegasus to trot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As folly, fame or famine smartly urges?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Admonished by the stimulating goad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How gaily, lo! the spavined crow-bait prances—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its cart before it—eager to unload</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The dead-dog sentiments and swill-tub fancies.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Gravely the sweating scavenger pulls out</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The tail-board of his curst imagination,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shoots all his rascal rubbish, and, no doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thanks Fortune for so good a dumping-station.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To improve your property, the vile cascade</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your thrift invites—to make a higher level.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In vain: with tons of garbage overlaid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your baseless bog sinks slowly to the devil.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Rubbish may be shot here"—familiar sign!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I seem to see it in your every column.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You have your wishes, but if I had mine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">'Twould to your editor mean something solemn.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-question-of-eligibility" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Question of Eligibility</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It was a bruised and battered chap</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The victim of some dire mishap,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who sat upon a rock and spent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His breath in this ungay lament:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Some wars—I've frequent heard of such—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has beat the everlastin' Dutch!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But never fight was fit by man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To equal this which has began</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In our (I'm in it, if you please)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Academy of Sciences.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For there is various gents belong</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To it which go persistent wrong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And loving the debates' delight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Calls one another names at sight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their disposition, too, accords</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With fighting like they all was lords!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sech impulses should be withstood:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis scientific to be good.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"'Twas one of them, one night last week,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rose up his figure for to speak:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Please, Mr. Chair, I'm holding here</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A resolution which, I fear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some ancient fossils that has bust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their cases and shook off their dust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To sit as Members here will find</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unpleasant, not to say unkind.'</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then he read it every word,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And silence fell on all which heard.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That resolution, wild and strange,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Proposed a fundamental change,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which was that idiots no more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could join us as they had before!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"No sooner was he seated than</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The members rose up, to a man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each chap was primed with a reply</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tried to snatch the Chairman's eye.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They stomped and shook their fists in air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, O, what words was uttered there!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"The Chair was silent, but at last</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He hove up his proportions vast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stilled them tumults with a look</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By which the undauntedest was shook.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He smiled sarcastical and said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'If Argus was the Chair, instead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of me, he'd lack enough of eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each orator to recognize!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And since, denied a hearing, you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Might maybe undertake to do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each other harm before you cease,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I've took some steps to keep the peace:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I've ordered out—alas, alas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Science e'er to such a pass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should come!—I've ordered out—the gas!'</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"O if a tongue or pen of fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was mine I could not tell entire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What the ensuin' actions was.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When swollered up in darkness' jaws</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We fit and fit and fit and fit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And everything we felt we hit!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We gouged, we scratched and we pulled hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And O, what words was uttered there!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when at last the day dawn came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Three hundred Scientists was lame;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two hundred others couldn't stand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They'd been so careless handled, and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One thousand at the very least</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was spread upon the floor deceased!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twere easy to exaggerate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But lies is things I mortal hate.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Such, friends, is the disaster sad</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which has befel the Cal. Acad.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now the question is of more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Importance than it was before:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall vacancies among us be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To idiots threw open free?"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="fleet-strother" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Fleet Strother</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What! you were born, you animated doll,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within the shadow of the Capitol?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twas always thought (and Bancroft so assures</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His trusting readers) it was reared in yours.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="reciprocity" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Reciprocity</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The night was dark, the way was steep:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I scarcely, for fatigue, could creep.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Fatigue, begone!" I cried. Not so;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It tarried and would not bego.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>At length the last wan glimmer died,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of hope that lit up my inside.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I let go all, and thought to sink</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Back, headlong, from the mountain's brink.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But ere I fell my startled eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beheld a wonder in the skies.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I grasped again a friendly tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To stay me till I more could see.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>(When shows are free that men admire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis most unthrifty to expire.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Seven clustered planets rose as one;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their light was like another sun!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Straight upward to the zenith they,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without defection, held their way.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then paused, revealing with their light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A massive building on the height.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Before my very eyes its face</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It reared; my feet were at its base.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And well I knew that I had clomb</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Lick's renowned memorial dome,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where Holden's mammoth tube betrays</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stellar gambols to his gaze.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With lifted brow and heart elate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I entered by the stranger's gate.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Smit with a reverential awe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The great man's figure there I saw.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He sat bolt upright in a chair—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Legs crossed, arms folded and head bare.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No king that I had ever seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Nor surely any jack nor queen)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Had ever on a golden throne</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With such a gracious aspect shone.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The giant telescope, reversed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seemed diving from the sky head first!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Its broader end remained at rest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within two yards of Holden's breast.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"O mighty scientist," I cried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Let me beneath this dome abide.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"The night is bad, and o'er your roof</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seven crazy planets are aloof.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"The trails are terrors to my shanks;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I dread the planetary pranks!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He deigned no word, but gave the nod.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That sign of an assenting god.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Meantime the telescope's great eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With splendor smote him, hip and thigh.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It seethed him in a lambent light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sharp, searching, glorious and white!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Illustrious man," I said again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"This mystery I pray explain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Why is the glass reversed, and why</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are you in session 'neath its eye?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>" 'Tis little that I know of stars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Venus is to me as Mars;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"But, pardon me, I know aright</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How gentlemen should pass the night."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That great professor smiled, and O,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The smile was light and cold as snow!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Know, then," he said "that what you view</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is payment of a debt long due.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"For years I've watched the planets roll.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And mapped the stars from pole to pole.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>" 'Tis true I once, the people say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Charted the lights of San Jose,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"But, generally speaking, I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can tell the valley from the sky.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Those planets up in Heaven's high cope</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I long have studied through the 'scope.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Fair play's a jewel, and to-night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their observation I invite.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I turn the tube and, as you see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Permit them now to study Me."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Next morn as on my way I sped,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I've seen a just, good man," I said.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="californian-summer-pictures" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Californian Summer Pictures</h3>
				<section id="californian-summer-pictures-1">
					<h4 epub:type="title">The Foot-Hill Resort</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Assembled in the parlor</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Of the place of last resort,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The smiler and the snarler</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And the guests of every sort—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">The elocution chap</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">With rhetoric on tap;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The mimic and the funny dog;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The social sponge; the money-hog;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Vulgarian and dude;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">And the prude;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The adiposing dame</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">With pimply face aflame;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The kitten-playful virgin—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Vergin' on to fifty years;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The solemn-looking sturgeon</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i2">Of a firm of auctioneers;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The widower flirtatious;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The widow all too gracious;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The man with a proboscis and a sepulcher beneath.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>One assassin picks the banjo, and another picks his teeth.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="californian-summer-pictures-2">
					<h4 epub:type="title">At Anchor</h4>
					<p>
						<span>The soft asphaltum in the sun;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Betrays a tendency to run;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Whereas the dog that takes his way</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Across its course concludes to stay.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="californian-summer-pictures-3">
					<h4 epub:type="title">The In-Coming Climate</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Now o' nights the ocean breeze</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Makes the patient flinch,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>For that zephyr bears a sneeze</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">In every cubic inch.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Lo! the lively population</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Chorusing in sternutation</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A catarrhal acclamation!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="californian-summer-pictures-4">
					<h4 epub:type="title">A Long-Felt Want</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Dimly apparent, through the gloom</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of Market-street's opaque simoom,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A queue of people, parti-sexed,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Awaiting the command of "Next!"</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A sidewalk booth, a dingy sign:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>"Teeth dusted nice—five cents a shine."</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="californian-summer-pictures-5">
					<h4 epub:type="title">To the Happy Hunting Grounds</h4>
					<p>
						<span>Wide windy reaches of high stubble field;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A long gray road, bordered with dusty pines;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A wagon moving in a "cloud by day."</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Two city sportsmen with a dove between,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Breast-high upon a fence and fast asleep—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A solitary dove, the only dove</span>
						<br/>
						<span>In twenty counties, and it sick, or else</span>
						<br/>
						<span>It were not there. Two guns that fire as one,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With thunder simultaneous and loud;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Two shattered human wrecks of blood and bone!</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And later, in the gloaming, comes a man—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The worthy local coroner is he,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Renowned all thereabout, and popular</span>
						<br/>
						<span>With many a remain. All tenderly</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Compiling in a game-bag the dibris,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He glides into the gloom and fades from sight.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The dove, cured of its ailment by the shock,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Has flown, meantime, on pinions strong and fleet,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To die of age in some far foreign land.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="slander" epub:type="z3998:poem z3998:drama">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Slander</h3>
				<table>
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Fitch</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>"All vices you've exhausted, friend;</span>
									<br/>
									<span class="i1">So all the papers say."</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pickering</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>"Ah, what vile calumnies are penned!—</span>
									<br/>
									<span class="i1">'Tis just the other way."</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</article>
			<article id="james-l-flood" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">James L. Flood</h3>
				<p>
					<span>As oft it happens in the youth of day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That mists obscure the sun's imperfect ray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who, as he's mounting to the dome's extreme,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Smites and dispels them with a steeper beam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So you the vapors that begirt your birth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Consumed, and manifested all your worth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But still one early vice obstructs the light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sullies all the visible and bright</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Display of mind and character. You write.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="three-candidates-for-senator" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Three Candidates for Senator</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To flatter your way to the goad of your hope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O plausible Mr. Perkins,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You'll need ten tons of the softest soap</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And butter a thousand firkins.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soap you could put to a better use</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In washing your hands of ambition</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere the butter's used for cooking your goose</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To a beautiful brown condition.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"The Railroad can't run Stanford." That is so—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The tail can't curl the pig; but then, you know,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inside the vegetable-garden's pale</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The pig will eat more cabbage than the tail.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When Sargent struts by all the lawmakers say:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"Right—left!" It is fair to infer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The right will get left, nor polar the day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When he makes that thing to occur.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Not so, not so, 'tis a joke, that cry—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Foolish and dull and small:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He so bores them for votes that they mean to imply</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He's a drill-Sargent, that is all.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Gods! what a sight! Astride McClure's broad back</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Estee jogs round the Senatorial track,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The crowd all undecided, as they pass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whether to cheer the man or cheer the ass.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They stop: the man to lower his feet is seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the tired beast, withdrawing from between,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mounts, as they start again, the biped's neck,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And scarce the crowd can say which one's on deck.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-growler" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Growler</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Judge Shafter, you're an aged man, I know,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And learned too, I doubt not, in the law;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a head white with many a winter's snow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(I wish, however that your heart would thaw)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Claims reverence and honor; but the jaw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That's always wagging with a word malign,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nagging and scolding every one in sight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As harshly as a jaybird in a pine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And with as little sense of wrong and right</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As animates that irritable creature,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is not a very venerable feature.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You damn all witnesses, all jurors too</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(And swear at the attorneys, I suppose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But <i>that's</i> commendable) "till all is blue";</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And what it's all about, the good Lord knows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Not you; but all the hotter, fiercer glows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your wrath for that—as dogs the louder howl</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With only moonshine to incite their rage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bears with more ferocious menace growl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Even when their food is flung into the cage.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reform, your Honor, and forbear to curse us.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lest all men, hearing you, cry: "<i>Ecce ursus</i>!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ad-moodium" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Ad Moodium</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Tut! Moody, do not try to show</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To gentlemen and ladies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That if they have not "Faith," they'll go</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Headlong to Hades.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Faith is belief; and how can I</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Have that by being willing?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This dime I cannot, though I try,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Believe a shilling.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Perhaps you can. If so, pray do—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Believe you own it, also.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But what seems evidence to you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I may not call so.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Heaven knows I'd like the Faith to think</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This little vessel's contents</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are liquid gold. I see 'tis ink</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">For writing nonsense.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Minds prone to Faith, however, may</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Come now and then to sorrow:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They put their trust in truth to-day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">In lies to-morrow.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No doubt the happiness is great</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To think as one would wish to;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But not to swallow every bait,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">As certain fish do.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To think a snake a cord, I hope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Would bolden and delight me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But some day I might think a rope</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Would chase and bite me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Curst Reason! Faith forever blest!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You're crying all the season.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, who decides that Faith is best?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Why, Mr. Reason.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He's right or wrong; he answers you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">According to your folly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And says what you have taught him to,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Like any polly.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-spade" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Spade</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">[The spade that was used to turn the first sod in the</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">construction of the Central Pacific Railroad is to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">exhibited at the New Orleans Exposition.—<i>Press Telegram</i>.]</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Precursor of our woes, historic spade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What dismal records burn upon thy blade!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On thee I see the maculating stains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of passengers' commingled blood and brains.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In this red rust a widow's curse appears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And here an orphan tarnished thee with tears.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon thy handle sanguinary bands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reveal the clutching of thine owner's hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When first he wielded thee with vigor brave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To cut a sod and dig a people's grave—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(For they who are debauched are dead and ought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In God's name, to be hid from sight and thought.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within thee, as within a magic glass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I seem to see a foul procession pass—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Judges with ermine dragging in the mud</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And spotted here and there with guiltless blood;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gold-greedy legislators jingling bribes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kept editors and sycophantic scribes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Liars in swarms and plunderers in tribes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They fade away before the night's advance,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fancy figures thee a devil's lance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gleaming portentous through the misty shade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While ghosts of murdered virtues shriek about my blade!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-van-nessiad" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Van Nessiad</h3>
				<p>
					<span>From end to end, thine avenue, Van Ness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rang with the cries of battle and distress!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brave lungs were thundering with dreadful sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And perspiration smoked along the ground!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing, heavenly muse, to ears of mortal clay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The meaning, cause and finish of the fray.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Great Porter Ashe (invoking first the gods,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who signed their favor with assenting nods</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That snapped off half their heads—their necks grown dry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since last the nectar cup went circling by)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Resolved to build a stable on his lot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His neighbors fiercely swearing he should not.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said he: "I build that stable!" "No, you don't,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said they. "I can!" "You can't!" "I will!" "You won't!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"By heaven!" he swore; "not only will I build,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But purchase donkeys till the place is filled!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Needless expense," they sneered in tones of ice—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"The owner's self, if lodged there, would suffice."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For three long months the awful war they waged:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With women, women, men with men engaged,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While roaring babes and shrilling poodles raged!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Jove, from Olympus, where he still maintains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His ancient session (with rheumatic pains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Touched by his long exposure) marked the strife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Interminable but by loss of life;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For malediction soon exhausts the breath—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If not, old age itself is certain death.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo! he holds high in heaven the fatal beam;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A golden pan depends from each, extreme;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This feels of Porter's fate the downward stress,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That bears the destiny of all Van Ness.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alas! the rusted scales, their life all gone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deliver judgment neither pro nor con:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dooms hang level and the war goes on.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a divine, contemptuous disesteem</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jove dropped the pans and kicked, himself, the beam:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, to decide the strife, with ready wit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The nickel that he did not care for it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Twirled absently, remarking: "See it spin:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Head, Porter loses; tail, the others win."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The conscious nickel, charged with doom, spun round,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Portentously and made a ringing sound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, staggering beneath its load of fate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sank rattling, died at last and lay in state.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Jove scanned the disk and then, as is his wont,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Raised his considering orbs, exclaiming: "Front!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With leisurely alacrity approached</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The herald god, to whom his mind he broached:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"In San Francisco two belligerent Powers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such as contended round great Ilion's towers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fight for a stable, though in either class</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There's not a horse, and but a single ass.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Achilles Ashe, with formidable jaw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Assails a Trojan band with fierce hee-haw,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Firing the night with brilliant curses. They</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With dark vituperation gloom the day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fate, against which nor gods nor men compete,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Decrees their victory and his defeat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With haste, good Mercury, betake thee hence</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And salivate him till he has no sense!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sheer downward shot the messenger afar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trailing a splendor like a falling star!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With dimming lustre through the air he burned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vanished, nor till another sun returned.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sovereign of the gods superior smiled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beaming benignant, fatherly and mild:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Is Destiny's decree performed, my lad?—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And has he now no sense?" "Ah, sire, he never had."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-fish-commissioner" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Fish Commissioner</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Great Joseph D. Redding—illustrious name!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Considered a fish-horn the trumpet of Fame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That goddess was angry, and what do you think?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her trumpet she filled with a gallon of ink,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all through the Press, with a devilish glee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She sputtered and spattered the name of J.D.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-stray-dog" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To a Stray Dog</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Well, Towser (I'm thinking your name must be Towser),</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You're a decentish puppy as puppy dogs go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For you never, I'm sure, could have dined upon trowser,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And your tail's unimpeachably curled just so.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But, dear me! your name—if 'tis yours—is a "poser":</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Its meaning I cannot get anywise at,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When spoken correctly perhaps it is Toser,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And means one who toses. Max Muller, how's that?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I ne'er was ingenious at all at divining</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A word's prehistorical, primitive state,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or finding its root, like a mole, by consigning</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Its bloom to the turnep-top's sorrowful fate.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And, now that I think of it well, I'm no nearer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The riddle's solution than ever—for how's</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My pretty invented word, "tose," any clearer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In point of its signification than "towse"?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So, Towser (or Toser), I mean to rename you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In honor of some good and eminent man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the light and the heat of whose quickening fame you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">May grow to an eminent dog if you can.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In sunshine like his you'll not long be a croucher:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Senate shall hear you—for that I will vouch.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come here, sir. Stand up. I rechristen you Goucher.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But damn you! I'll shoot you if ever you gouch!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-his-hand" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">In His Hand</h3>
				<p>
					<span>De Young (in Chicago the story is told)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Took his life in his hand," like a warrior bold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stood before Buckley—who thought him behind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Buckley, the man-eating monster is blind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Count fairly the ballots!" so rang the demand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the gallant De Young, with his life in his hand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis done, and the struggle is ended. No more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He havocs the battle-field, gilt with the gore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of slain reputations. No more he defies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His "lying opponents" with deadlier lies.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His trumpet is hushed and his belt is unbound—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His enemies' characters cumber the ground.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They bloat on the war-plain with ink all asoak,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fortunate candidates perching to croak.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No more he will charge, with a daring divine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His foes with corruption, his friends by the line.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The thunders are stilled of the horrid campaign,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>De Young is triumphant, and never again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will he need, with his life in his hand, to roar:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Count fair or, by G⸺, I will die on your floor!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His life has been spared, for his sins to atone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the hand that he took it in washed with cologne.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-demagogue" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Demagogue</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">"Yawp, yawp, yawp!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Under the moon and sun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">It's aye the rabble,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And I to gabble,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hey! for the tale that is never done.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">"Chant, chant, chant!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To woo the reluctant vote.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I would I were dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And my say were said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my song were sung to its ultimate note.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">"Stab, stab, stab!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah! the weapon between my teeth—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I'm sick of the flash of it;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">See how the slash of it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Misses the foeman to mangle the sheath!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">"Boom, boom, boom!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'm beating the mammoth drum.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My nethermost tripes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I blow into the pipes—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It's oh! for the honors that never come!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">'Twas the dolorous blab</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of a tramping "scab"—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">'Twas the eloquent Swift</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of the marvelous gift—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wild, weird, wonderful gift of gab!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="ignis-fatuus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Ignis Fatuus</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Weep, weep, each loyal partisan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For Buckley, king of hearts;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A most accomplished man; a man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of parts—of foreign parts.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Long years he ruled with gentle sway,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor grew his glory dim;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he would be with us to-day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If we were but with him.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Men wondered at his going off</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In such a sudden way;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twas thought, as he had come to scoff</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He would remain to prey.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Since he is gone we're all agreed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That he is what men call</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A crook: his very steps, indeed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are bent—to Montreal.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So let our tears unhindered flow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our sighs and groans have way:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It matters not how much we Oh!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The devil is to pay.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="from-top-to-bottom" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">From Top to Bottom</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i2">[Japan has 73,759 Buddhist priests, "most of whom," says a</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Christian missionary, "are grossly ignorant, and many of them</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">lead scandalous lives."]</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O Buddha, had you but foreknown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The vices of your priesthood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It would have made you twist and moan</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As any wounded beast would.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You would have damned the entire lot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And turned a Christian, would you not?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There were no Christians, I'll allow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In your day; that would only</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have brought distinction. Even now</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A Christian might feel lonely.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All take the name, but facts are things</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As stubborn as the will of kings.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The priests were ignorant and low</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When ridiculed by Lucian;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The records, could we read, might show</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The same of times Confucian.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet the fact I can't disguise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Deacon Rankin's good and wise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>'Tis true he is not quite a priest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor more than half a preacher;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But he exhorts as loud at least</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As any living creature.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when the plate is passed about</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He never takes a penny out.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From Buddha down to Rankin! There,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I never did intend to.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This pen's a buzzard's quill, I swear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Such subjects to descend to.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When from the humming-bird I've wrung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A plume I'll write of Mike de Young.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-idler" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Idler</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Who told Creed Haymond he was witty?—who</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had nothing better in this world to do?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could no greased pig's appeal to his embrace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kindle his ardor for the friendly chase?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did no dead dog upon a vacant lot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bloated and bald, or curdled in a clot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stir his compassion and inspire his arms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hide from human eyes its faded charms?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If not to works of piety inclined,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then recreation might have claimed his mind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The harmless game that shows the feline greed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To cinch the shorts and make the market bleed[A]</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is better sport than victimizing Creed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a far livelier satisfaction comes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of knowing Simon, autocrat of thumbs.[B]</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If neither worthy work nor play command</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This gentleman of leisure's heart and hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then Mammon might his idle spirit lift</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By hope of profit to some deed of thrift.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is there no cheese to pare, no flint to skin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No tin to mend, no glass to be put in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No housewife worthy of a morning visit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her rags and sacks and bottles to solicit?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo! the blind sow's precarious pursuit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the aspiring oak's familiar fruit!—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twould more advantage any man to steal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This easy victim's undefended meal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than tell Creed Haymond he has wit, and so</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Expose the state to his narcotic flow!</span>
				</p>
				<p><span>[Footnote A: "Pussy Wants a Corner."]</span>!!!TODO!!!</p>
				<p><span>[Footnote B: "Simon Says Thumbs Up."]</span>!!!TODO!!!</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-dead-king" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Dead King</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Hawaii's King resigned his breath—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our Legislature guffawed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The awful dignity of death</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Not any single rough awed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But when our Legislators die</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All Kings, Queens, Jacks and Aces cry.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-patter-song" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Patter Song</h3>
				<p>
					<span>There was a cranky Governor—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His name it wasn't Waterman.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For office he was hotter than</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The love of any lover, nor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was Boruck's threat of aiding him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Effective in dissuading him—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This pig-headed, big-headed, singularly self-conceited Governor Nonwaterman.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To citrus fairs, <i>et cftera</i>,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He went about philandering,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To pride of parish pandering.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He knew not any better—ah,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His early education had</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not taught the abnegation fad—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The wool-witted, bull-witted, fabulously feeble-minded king of gabble-gandering!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He conjured up, <i>ad libitum</i>,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With postures energetical,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">One day (this is prophetical)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His graces, to exhibit 'em.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He straddled in each attitude,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Four parallels of latitude—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The slab-footed, crab-footed, galloping gregarian, of presence unfsthetical!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An ancient cow, perceiving that</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His powers of agility</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Transcended her ability</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(A circumstance for grieving at)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon her horns engrafted him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to the welkin wafted him—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The high-rolling, sky-rolling, hurtling hallelujah-lad of peerless volatility!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-caller" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Caller</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Why, Goldenson, you're looking very well."</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Said Death as, strolling through the County Jail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He entered that serene assassin's cell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And hung his hat and coat upon a nail.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I think that life in this secluded spot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Agrees with men of your trade, does it not?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Well, yes," said Goldenson, "I can't complain:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Life anywhere—provided it is mine—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Agrees with me; but I observe with pain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That still the people murmur and repine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It hurts their sense of harmony, no doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see a persecuted man grow stout."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"O no, 'tis not your growing stout," said Death,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"Which makes these malcontents complain and scold—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They like you to be, somehow, scant of breath.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What they object to is your growing old.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And—though indifferent to lean or fat—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I don't myself entirely favor <i>that</i>."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With brows that met above the orbs beneath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And nose that like a soaring hawk appeared,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lifted lip, uncovering his teeth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Mamikellikiller coldly sneered:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"O, so you don't! Well, how will you assuage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your spongy passion for the blood of age?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Death with a clattering convulsion, drew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His coat on, hatted his unmeated pow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unbarred the door and, stepping partly through,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Turned and made answer: "I will <i>show</i> you how.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'm going to the Bench you call Supreme</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tap the old women who sit there and dream."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-shafter-shafted" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Shafter Shafted</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Well, James McMillan Shafter, you're a Judge—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At least you were when last I knew of you;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And if the people since have made you budge</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I did not notice it. I've much to do</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Without endeavoring to follow, through</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The miserable squabbles, dust and smudge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fate of even the veteran contenders</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who fight with flying colors and suspenders.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Being a Judge, 'tis natural and wrong</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That you should villify the public press—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save while you are a candidate. That song</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is easy quite to sing, and I confess</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It wins applause from hearers who have less</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of spiritual graces than belong</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To audiences of another kidney—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men, for example, like Sir Philip Sidney.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Newspapers, so you say, don't always treat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Judges with respect. That may be so</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And still no harm done, for I swear I'll eat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My legs and in the long hereafter go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Snake-like, upon my belly if you'll show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All Judges are respectable and sweet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For some of them are rogues and the world's laughter's</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Directed at some others, for they're Shafters.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-one-out-of-favor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To One Out of Favor</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Attention, Miles! You have observed, no doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That General Sam Young is "fired out";</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That is to say, retired for age. Just so;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You were yourself retired not long ago—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just "cast as rubbish to the void" (for such</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is Law's demand)—alighting where 'tis much</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Too cold for comfort. There you may be found</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Piled up on Fame's eternal dumping-ground.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If you've a memory you still can tell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yourself how singularly hard you fell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And no one "kissed the place to make it well."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I know not (Mr. Root knows little else)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why Sam should fare so better far than Nelse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But so he did, for scarcely did he light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere Mr. Secretary gripped him tight,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Stood him erect, removed his coat and shirt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, finding on his person where it hurt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Performed, in pity for his hapless plight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The appropriate consolatory rite.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Miles, you are lucky! True, you're badly bruised,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wound administered, the balm refused;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But if too rashly you had dared to strip</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your aching back for the official lip,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Consider the temptation (none can fight it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who has Administration teeth) to bite it!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="privation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Privation</h3>
				<p>
					<span>With her grief the widow was so engrossed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As she rode at the hearse's rear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That I really think the dead man's ghost</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Must have shed the ghost of a tear.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She murmured and moaned and wiped her eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And blew her pale nose for relief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then started and cried, as in pained surprise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"I've forgotten my handkerchief!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"O, what shall I do when we get to the grave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the coffin is put in the ground?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know I shall weep, for I cannot be brave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With those staring people all round."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Be calm," said one; "there is nothing forgot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For your handkerchief you bring'—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You are holding it—see." Said the widow: "What!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This pokey old linen thing?"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-one-in-custody" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To One in Custody</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Villain! for years you've plied your awful trade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For wife, for widow and—no, not for maid:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even you'll confess in chastity one true</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Advantage—its immunity from you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About your hand, in clamorous appeal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As round the blade of Calmar, shriek and wheel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like flights of Arctic seabirds, the forlorn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pale ghosts—mothers and babes unborn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now, villain, now, I pray your time has come—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mercy be deaf and intercession dumb!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No more, red-handed, in the path to life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May you be found alurk with eager knife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor longer o'er the door to death display</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sign, "For Ladies." Lo! day after day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For twenty years I've read on every wall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A handwriting prophetic of your fall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now the last dread syllable I spell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That damns your body to a felon's cell—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your soul has long awaited you in Hell!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="for-a-revised-version" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">For a Revised Version</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Oh, deem it not presumption, Lord,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In me to revise Thy holy Word—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No jot or tittle I'd efface,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No menace dire, nor pledge of grace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No poetry I'd blot (although it's</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well known to Thee that I hate poets),</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But humbly, reverently try</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some missing mandates to supply.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For lo! I fall of dunces ill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who've got by heart Thy written will ;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I turn, behold! in tears away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From rogues Thy bidding who obey.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherever "Thou shalt not" occurs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'd add "Thou shalt the exact reverse,"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And many a virtue, too, compel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(By plain command and threat of hell)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which has no corresponding vice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To interdict in terms precise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus I'd exterminate the brood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of rascals negatively good—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men Bible-clear, who ought to smart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath the lash at tail of cart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each soul (masks, too, would then be thinner)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If not a saint, should be a sinner.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In error. Lord, if I am found,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Observe how clouds my vision bound:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forgive my narrowness of sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bless me with the larger light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Thine imperfect law to trace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The perfect purpose of Thy grace.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-mormon-question" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">The Mormon Question</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>By J‑qu‑n M‑ll‑r</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>I said I will shake myself out of my clothes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I will roll up my sleeves, I will spit on my hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(The hands that I kissed to the sun in the lands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the north, to the east, to the south, and the west</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of every sea that is under the sun),</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I will go to the land that the Gentile loathes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As he gathers his one small wife to his breast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And curses and loathes till his life is done.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I will go to the place of the Mormon: the place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the jackass rabbit is first in the race</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the woodchuck chatters in meaningless glee—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Chatters and twists all his marvelous face—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Twists it and chatters and looks like me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I rose in the strongest strength of my strength,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With my breast of brass and my hair's full length,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I shook myself out of my clothes in the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the Mormons, and stood there and kissed my hand.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-election-expense" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Election Expense</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Stanford, when recently you gave Tom Fitch</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ten thousand dollars, gold, to "stump the State"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(A circumstance of no importance, which</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You deemed it right, however, to relate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the grand jury) did you calculate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That it and other sums, which I will not</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Embarrass you by naming, would come back,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As bread upon the waters, piping hot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With added pancakes in an ample stack?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twere better, sir, to cast your bread-and-butter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(You'd get that back, at least) into the gutter.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Tom Fitch's "silver tongue" is very well</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If let alone—though that he'll never do.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For he must live by what he has to sell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And silver should be "free," that's very true.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But how the devil could the thing help you?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like an unruly child, it kicks and squalls</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In mutiny whene'er he moves his chin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ne'er is faithful except when he falls</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Asleep in Je—I mean, of course, in Gin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tom's tongue make Senators? No, no, that's gammon ;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They're made by Mr. Stow and Mr. Mammon.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I know they are, for once I saw the two</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hobnobbing in a friendly kind of way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up there at Sacramento. It is true</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You were not with them. I heard statesmen say</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You took good care to tarry at the Bay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where you could be "surprised" when Creed should claim</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your ear, and hope you'd pardon him, and sigh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And say he'd ventured to propose your name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And that all men had thrown their hats so high</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That none had yet come down, and split their collars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With cheers, and—would you loan him twenty dollars?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A famous person said that God and he</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Were a majority; so, by your leave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are you and Mammon; but it seems to me</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That you and he on this Thanksgiving eve</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Should drink a stirrup-cup (for I perceive</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You ride your philanthropic hobby—Ned</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Curtis astride behind you) and so part.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For, after all is done and all is said.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Mammon &amp; Stanford are not over-smart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The firm's an old one, but not quite respected</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since you in statesmanship have been detected.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="william-f-smith" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">William F. Smith</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Light lie the earth upon his dear dead heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And dreams disturb him never.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be deeper peace than Paradise his part</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Forever and forever.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="juventus-mundi" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Juventus Mundi</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Dr. Allen Griffiths is an audible Theosopher—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A student of Blavatsky, inconsolable for loss of her.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He says (he's seen the figures, too) the human race was flourishing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Three hundred million years upon this planet, ever nourishing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flame of immortality (which always, though, was flickering</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until it burned, a still, eternal red, in Mr. Pickering)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before that microbe-chief of all the spiritual faculties,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Faculty of Thinking, heard of Man and lightly tackled his</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poor brain, then sleeping sweetly in his undefended cranium.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unable to distinguish a surmise from a geranium.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O happy, happy period of mental independency!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O golden, golden age of Theosophical ascendency!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="two-guides" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Two Guides</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>Ingersoll has neither philosophy nor logic. He has only sentiment, wit and rhetoric.</p>
						<cite epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Bulletin</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>You, Fitch, are known to be a Deacon—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A shining light, a holy beacon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the walls of Zion, blazing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With an effulgency amazing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And yet, I think, between the two</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Bob Ingersoll, I mean, and you)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man in want of light to read</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Between the lines of nature's Creed</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Would rather scrutinize Creation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By Robert's clear illumination,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than blind his eyes with smoke and vapor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From your infernal sputtering taper.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Though Ingersoll, perchance, had not</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of wisdom or of truth one jot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I'd rather miss with him the clew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To life than follow it with you.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-warning" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">In Warning</h3>
				<p>
					<span>They tell us, dear Kipling, you're coming to shoot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the hills of the wide, wild West.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There's a lot of cost and a risk to boot—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I don't at all think it is best,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And hope it is only a jest.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For, Rudyard, although you're a terrible swell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You're not in high favor out here;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For you said San Francisco was meaner than—well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You said it was very small beer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Chicago uncommonly queer.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You put your legs under our tables, you did,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You dined at the Jollidog Club;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when of your hunger you well were rid</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(And your manners too) like a cub</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You snarled at the speeches and grub.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You said—I don't know the one half that you said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But I know you pretended to meet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some folk that existed not out of your head</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or an English comical sheet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And you vilified Kearny street!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Our statesman apparently didn't get far</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the favor of one so too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Too utterly fine. Nor the plump cigar</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor the shiny hat could woo</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sweet and beautiful You.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But hardest of all our hearts you wrung</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With assorted pangs and woes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When you said you could speak the English tongue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But not the American nose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And you damned our orators o's!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For all of this and for all of that</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You'd better abate your flame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And remain where pheasants are tame and fat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the sportsman takes his aim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As a general thing, at the game.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Out here when we go to shoot, perhaps</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor beast nor bird we see;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So we just let go at the Britisher chaps</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who have made remarks too free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the same surcease to be.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="apparition" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Apparition</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"The ghosts are all gone," the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Bulletin</i> cries.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O neighbor, good neighbor, where are your eyes ?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gruesome and ghastly, beneath your nose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A ghost is stalking that never goes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a stony eye and a brow of gloom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It enters the editorial room,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It haunts the passages, haunts the stairs—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Editors, printers alike it scares;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the reader most it appals, for still</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It writes and writes with a real quill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On real paper, in real ink,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The phantoms of thoughts that dead men think.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sheeted ideas from wormy brains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Troop o'er the paper, and spooks of strains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of sepulchral laughter seem to float</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the air as the ghost reads what it wrote;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a faint, white, phosphorescent ray—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The visible eloquence of decay—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gleams on its lips as it reads each word</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a tone that no mortal before has heard.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Copy to printer and ghost to tomb—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Silent the editorial room.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Bulletin</i> ghost is indeed a most</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remarkable kind of a <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Bulletin</i> ghost.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who sees it cries, as his heart were bled:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"O God! will Bill Bartlett never stay dead?"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-creditable-collision" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Creditable Collision</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">There was once a brave collision</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">In Imaginary Bay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">When a steamer with precision</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Clove its comfortable way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through another, which had hospitably stood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To receive it, as a civil steamer should.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">Then the people on the latter</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Said they didn't understand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">But they thought they'd better scatter</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">To the most adjacent land;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the people on the former said: "That's so—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You will find it sixty fathoms down below."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">Then the skipper of the vessel</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Which was sinking in the brine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Said to t'other one: "I guess I'll</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Trouble you to drop a line."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Well, just give me your address," was the reply,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I am busy but I'll write you by-and-by."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">Then the carpenter whose function</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Was to mend the leaky boat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Said: "So wide is our disjunction</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">That we cannot longer float.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See the rats already leave us!" And so he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Up and hove his kit among them in the sea.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">Though these incidents are cheerful</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">For a landsman to relate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Yet the passengers were fearful</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Of a melancholy fate;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For their knowledge was imperfect of the way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the fishes have of breathing in the bay.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">Some of them, who were accounted</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Quite unmannerly and rude,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">On the floating steamer mounted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Saying: "Hope we don't intrude."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the others, with politeness rare and fine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said their tickets were not good upon that line.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">But the skipper of the wetter</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Ship, the pilot and the mate—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Nothing ever yet was better</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Than the way they met their fate;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the perils that beset them in their climb</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They encountered with alacrity sublime.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">When the troubles all were ended</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And the living safe in port</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Invitation was extended</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">For them all to come to court.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the officers (they afterward explained)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were with deferential kindness entertained.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">Twenty Consuls, ten Inspectors,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Thirty Coroners were there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Eighty-seven skilled objectors</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">And a Notary to swear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And before that court the sailor-people sighed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And expounded how the passengers had lied.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i3">The unanimous decision</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Of that high and mighty court</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Was "spontaneous collision"—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">(I am quoting the report)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the skippers were commended who had fed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the lobsters each a bellyful of dead.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-emigrant" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">An Emigrant</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>(after Tennyson)</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>You ask me why, though ill at ease,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Within this region I subsist,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where all defaulters fill the fist</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere sailing o'er the western seas.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It is a land where one may kill</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With sober-sided freedom—bruise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And shoot and stab whome'er he choose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thugs may wreak their own sweet will.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A land of such misgovernment</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That Justice here has not a frown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And greed still broadens slowly down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Scavenger to President;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where Faction gathers to a head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And in his greasy, foulest thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sets law and order all at naught—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Goes in for anarchy instead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If banded unions prosecute</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1"><em>Our</em> unions like the deuce, and I'm</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">About to be had up for crime.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or made to keep my clapper mute;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And Power should take from purse and till,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The gains that I appropriate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From every coffer of the State,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I to fight have not the will.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then waft me from the harbor south,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wild winds! I seek a safer sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where I can plunder still, and I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can still shoot off my loaded mouth.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="contempt-of-court" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Contempt of Court</h3>
				<p>
					<span>So, Juror Simpson, you got drunk</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And was a holy show!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who could have thought that you had sunk</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So very low</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As not to hold it clearly sinful</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To get your miserable skin full?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Defendant has a right, I think,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To trial by her peers;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are <em>you</em> one when you are in drink</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Up to your ears?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You're not her equal by a pailful</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When you've enough to make a whale full.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Judge Ross, who never, never looks</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On wine when it is red,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But sits cold sober cramming books</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Into his head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poor fellow! must have felt quite rueful,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Observing, not himself, but you full.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, well, I know you did not mean—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">'Twas all an accident:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You drank between drinks, and between</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Them you repent.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But just prepare for something awful</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In words: That jurist has his jaw full.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-partial-eclipse" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Partial Eclipse</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A Person of Consequence rose from the dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to him a curious citizen said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Beg pardon, but why is your glorious name</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not blazoned in gold on the Temple of Fame?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"I truly don't know," said the spook in reply,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"And was just on the point of asking you why</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those other names <em>are</em>" And the risen one made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A wink that threw half of the land into shade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sent half of the hens to their perches aloof,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And half of the cats to the peak of a roof,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Half-crazed the foreseer of eclipses, and fooled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The funny left lobe of the brain of Miss Gould.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
		<section id="uncollected-poems" epub:type="division">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Uncollected Poetry</h2>
			<article id="science" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Science</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The winds of heaven trample down the pines</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or creep in lazy tides along the lea;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lead the wild waters from the smitten rock.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or crawl with childish babble to the sea;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But why the tempests out of heaven blow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or what the purpose of the seaward flow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No man hath known, and none shall ever know.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Why seek to know? To follow nature up</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Against the current of her course, why care?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vain is the toil; he's wisest still who knows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All science is but formulated prayer—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prayer for the warm winds and the quickening rain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prayer for sharp sickle and for laboring swain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To gather from the planted past the grain.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
		<section id="the-mummery" epub:type="division">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Mummery</h2>
			<article id="the-two-cavees" epub:type="z3998:drama">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Two Cavees</h3>
				<section id="the-two-cavees-dramatis-personae" epub:type="z3998:dramatis-personae">
					<h4 epub:type="title">Dramatis Personae</h4>
					<ul>
						<li>
							<p>Fitch, a Pelter of Railrogues</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>Pickering, his Partner, an Enemy to Sin</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>Old Nick, a General Blackwasher</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>Dead Cat, a Missile</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>Antique Egg, Another</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>Railrouges, Dump-Carters. Navvies and Unassorted Shovelry in the Lower Distance</p>
						</li>
					</ul>
				</section>
				<section id="the-two-cavees-scene" epub:type="z3998:scene">
					<header>
						<p>Scene—The Brink of a Railway Cut, a Mile Deep.</p>
						<p>Time—<time datetime="1875">1875</time>.</p>
					</header>
					<table>
						<tbody>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Fitch</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Gods! what a steep declivity! Below</span>
										<br/>
										<span>I see the lazy dump-carts come and go,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Creeping like beetles and about as big.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The delving Paddies—</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pickering</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i9">Case of <i xml:lang="la">infra dig.</i></span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Fitch</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>Loring, light-minded and unmeaning quips</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Come with but scant propriety from lips</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Fringed with the blue-black evidence of age.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>'Twere well to cultivate a style more sage,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>For men will fancy, hearing how you pun,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Our foulest missiles are but thrown in fun.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter Dead Cat.</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>Here's one that thoughtfully has come to hand;</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Slant your fine eye below and see it land.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Seizes Dead Cat by the tail and swings it in act to throw.</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Dead Cat</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">singing</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:song">
										<p>
											<span class="i1">Merrily, merrily, round I go—</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i2">Over and under and at.</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">Swing wide and free, swing high and low</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i2">The anti-monopoly cat!</span>
										</p>
										<p>
											<span class="i1">O, who wouldn't be in the place of me,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i2">The anti-monopoly cat?</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">Designed to admonish,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">Persuade and astonish</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">The capitalist and—</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Fitch</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">letting go</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i8">Scat!</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td/>
								<td>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit Dead Cat.</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pickering</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>Huzza! good Deacon, well and truly flung!</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Pat Stanford it has grassed, and Mike de Young.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Mike drives a dump-cart for the villains, though</span>
											<br/>
											<span>'Twere fitter that he pull it. Well, we owe</span>
											<br/>
											<span>The traitor one for leaving us!—some day</span>
											<br/>
											<span>We'll get, if not his place, his cart away.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Meantime fling missiles—any kind will do.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter Antique Egg.</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>Ha! we can give them an <em>ovation</em>, too!</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Antique Egg</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i3">In the valley of the Nile,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">Where the Holy Crocodile</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">Of immeasurable smile</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">Blossoms like the early rose,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">And the Sacred Onion grows—</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">When the Pyramids were new</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">And the Sphinx possessed a nose,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">By a storkess I was laid</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">In the cool papyrus shade,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">Where the rushes later grew,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">That concealed the little Jew,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i5">Baby Mose.</span>
									</p>
									<p>
										<span class="i3">Straining very hard to hatch,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">I disrupted there my yolk;</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">And I felt my yellow streaming</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i5">Through my white;</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">And the dream that I was dreaming</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">Of posterity was broke</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i5">In a night.</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">Then from the papyrus-patch</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">By the rising waters rolled,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">Passing many a temple old,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">I proceeded to the sea.</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">Memnon sang, one morn, to me,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">And I heard Cambyses sass</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">The tomb of Ozymandias!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Fitch</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>O, venerablest orb of all the earth,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>God rest the lady fowl that gave thee birth!</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Fit missile for the vilest hand to throw—</span>
											<br/>
											<span>I freely tender thee mine own. Although</span>
											<br/>
											<span>As a bad egg I am myself no slouch,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Thy riper years thy ranker worth avouch.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Now, Pickering, please expose your eye and say</span>
											<br/>
											<span>If—whoop!—</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit egg.</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i6">I've got the range.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pickering</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="right">Hooray! hooray!</span>
										<br/>
										<span>A grand good shot, and Teddy Colton's down:</span>
										<br/>
										<span>It burst in thunderbolts upon his crown!</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Larry O'Crocker drops his pick and flies,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And deafening odors scream along the skies!</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Pelt 'em some more.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Fitch</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i9">There's nothing left but tar—</span>
										<br/>
										<span>I wish I were a Yahoo.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pickering</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="right">Well, you are.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>But keep the tar. How well I recollect,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>When Mike was in with us—proud, strong, erect—</span>
											<br/>
											<span><i xml:lang="la">Mens conscia recti</i>—flinging mud, he stood,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Austerely brave, incomparably good,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Ere yet for filthy lucre he began</span>
											<br/>
											<span>To drive a cart as Stanford's hired man,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>That pitch-pot bearing in his hand, Old Nick</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Appeared and tarred us all with the same stick.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter Old Nick.</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>I hope he won't return and use his arts</span>
											<br/>
											<span>To make us part with our immortal parts.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Old Nick</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Make yourself easy on that score my lamb;</span>
										<br/>
										<span>For both your souls I wouldn't give a damn!</span>
										<br/>
										<span>I want my tar-pot—hello! where's the stick?</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Fitch</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Don't look at <em>me</em> that fashion!—look at Pick.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pickering</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>Forgive me, father—pity my remorse!</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Truth is—Mike took that stick to spank his horse.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>It fills my pericardium with grief</span>
											<br/>
											<span>That I kept company with such a thief.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Endeavoring to get his handkerchief, he opens his coat and the tar-stick falls out. Nick picks it up, looks at the culprit reproachfully and withdraws in tears.</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Fitch</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">excitedly</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>O Pickering, come hither to the brink—</span>
											<br/>
											<span>There's something going on down there, I think!</span>
											<br/>
											<span>With many an upward smile and meaning wink</span>
											<br/>
											<span>The navvies all are running from the cut</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Like lunatics, to right and left—</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pickering</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i13">Tut, tut—</span>
											<br/>
											<span>'Tis only some poor sport or boisterous joke.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Let us sit down and have a quiet smoke.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They sit and light cigars.</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Fitch</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">singing</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:song">
										<p>
											<span>When first I met Miss Toughie</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">I smoked a fine cigyar,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>An' I was on de dummy</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">And she was in de cyar.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr class="together">
								<td rowspan="1" epub:type="z3998:persona">Both</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">singing</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:song">
										<p>
											<span>An' I was on de dummy</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">And she was in de cyar.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Fitch</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">singing</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:song">
										<p>
											<span>I couldn't go to her,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">An' she wouldn't come to me;</span>
											<br/>
											<span>An' I was as oneasy</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">As a gander on a tree.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr class="together">
								<td rowspan="1" epub:type="z3998:persona">Both</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">singing</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:song">
										<p>
											<span>An' I was as oneasy</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">As a gander on a tree.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Fitch</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">singing</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:song">
										<p>
											<span>But purty soon I weakened</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">An' lef' de dummy's bench,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>An' frew away a ten-cent weed</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">To win a five-cent wench!</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr class="together">
								<td rowspan="1" epub:type="z3998:persona">Both</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">singing</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:song">
										<p>
											<span>An' frew away a ten-cent weed</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">To win a five-cent wench!</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Fitch</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Is there not now a certain substance sold</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Under the name of fulminate of gold,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>A high explosive, popular for blasting,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Producing an effect immense and lasting?</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pickering</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Nay, that's mere superstition. Rocks are rent</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And excavations made by argument.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Explosives all have had their day and season;</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The modern engineer relies on reason.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>He'll talk a tunnel through a mountain's flank</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And by fair speech cave down the tallest bank.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td/>
								<td>
									<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The earth trembles, a deep subterranean explosion is heard and a section of the bank as big as El Capitan starts away and plunges thunderously into the cut. A part of it strikes De Young's dumpcart abaft the axletree and flings him, hurtling, skyward, a thing of legs and arms, to descend on the distant mountains, where it is cold. Fitch and Pickering pull themselves out of the dibris and stand ungraveling their eyes and noses.</i>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Fitch</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Well, since I'm down here I will help to grade,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And do dirt-throwing henceforth with a spade.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pickering</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>God bless my soul! it gave me quit a start.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Well, fate is fate—I guess I'll drive this cart.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
						</tbody>
					</table>
					<p epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Curtain.</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="metempsychosis" epub:type="z3998:drama">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Metempsychosis</h3>
				<section id="metempsychosis-dramatis-personae" epub:type="z3998:dramatis-personae">
					<h4 epub:type="title">Dramatis Personae</h4>
					<ul>
						<li>
							<p>St. John, a Presidential Candidate</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>McDonald, a Defeated Aspirant</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>Mrs. Hayes, an Ex-President</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>Pitts-Sevens, a Water Nymph</p>
						</li>
					</ul>
				</section>
				<section id="metempsychosis-scene" epub:type="z3998:scene">
					<header>
						<p>Scene—A Small Lake in the Alleghany Mountains.</p>
					</header>
					<table>
						<tbody>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">St. John</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">solus</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>Hours I've immersed my muzzle in this tarn</span>
											<br/>
											<span>And, quaffing copious potations, tried</span>
											<br/>
											<span>To suck it dry; but ever as I pumped</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Its waters into my distended skin</span>
											<br/>
											<span>The labor of my zeal extruded them</span>
											<br/>
											<span>In perspiration from my pores; and so,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Rilling the marginal declivity,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>They fell again into their source. Ah, me!</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Could I but find within these ancient hills</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Some long extinct volcano, by the rains</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Of countless ages in its crater brimmed</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Like a full goblet, I would lay me down</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Prone on the outer slope, and o'er its edge</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Arching my neck, I'd siphon out its store</span>
											<br/>
											<span>And flood the valleys with my sweat for aye.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>So should I be accounted as a god,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Even as Father Nilus is. What's that?</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Methought I heard some sawyer draw his file</span>
											<br/>
											<span>With jarring, stridulous cacophany</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Across his notchy blade, to set its teeth</span>
											<br/>
											<span>And mine on edge. Ha! there it goes again!</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">
									<i>Song, within</i>
								</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i1">Cold water's the milk of the mountains,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">And Nature's our wet-nurse. O then,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i1">Glue thou thy blue lips to her fountains</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">Forever and ever, amen!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">St. John</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>Why surely there's congenial company</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Aloof—the spirit, I suppose, that guards</span>
											<br/>
											<span>This sacred spot; perchance some water-nymph</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Who laving in the crystal flood her limbs</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Has taken cold, and so, with raucous voice</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Afflicts the sensitive membrane of mine ear</span>
											<br/>
											<span>The while she sings my sentiments.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter Pitts-Stevens.</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i15">Hello!</span>
											<br/>
											<span>What fiend is this?</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pitts-Stevens</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i8">'Tis I, be not afraid.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">St. John</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<span>And who, thou antiquated crone, art thou?</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I ne'er forget a face, but names I can't</span>
									<br/>
									<span>So well remember. I have seen thee oft.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>When in the middle season of the night,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Curved with a cucumber, or knotted hard</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With an eclectic pie, I've striven to keep</span>
									<br/>
									<span>My head and heels asunder, thou has come,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>With sociable familiarity,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Into my dream, but not, alas, to bless.</span>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pitts-Stevens</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>My name's Pitts-Stevens, age just seventeen years;</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Talking teetotaler, professional</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Beauty.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">St. John</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i4">What dost thou here?</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pitts-Stevens</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i13">I'm come, fair sir,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>With paint and brush to blazon on these rocks</span>
											<br/>
											<span>The merits of my master's nostrum—so:</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Paints rapidly:—"McDonald's Vinegar Bitters!"</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">St. John</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i13">What are they?</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pitts-Stevens</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>A woman suffering from widowhood</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Took a full bottle and was cured. A man</span>
											<br/>
											<span>There was—a murderer; the doctors all</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Had given him up—he'd but an hour to live.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>He swallowed half a glassful. He is dead,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>But not of Vinegar Bitters. A wee babe</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Lay sick and cried for it. The mother gave</span>
											<br/>
											<span>That innocent a spoonful and it smoothed</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Its pathway to the tomb. 'Tis warranted</span>
											<br/>
											<span>To cause a boy to strike his father, make</span>
											<br/>
											<span>A pig squeal, start the hair upon a stone,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Or play the fiddle for a country dance.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter McDonald, reading a Sunday-school book.</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>Good morrow, sir; I trust you're well.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">McDonald</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i13">H'lo, Pitts!</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Observe, good friends, I have a volume here</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Myself am author of—a noble book</span>
										<br/>
										<span>To train the infant mind (delightful task!)</span>
										<br/>
										<span>It tells how one Samantha Brown, age, six,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>A gutter-bunking slave to rum, was saved</span>
										<br/>
										<span>By Vinegar Bitters, went to church and now</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Has an account at the Pacific Bank.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>I'll read the whole work to you.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">St. John</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i11">Heaven forbid!</span>
										<br/>
										<span>I've elsewhere an engagement.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pitts-Stevens</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i9">I am deaf.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">McDonald</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">reading regardless</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>"Once on a time there lived"—</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">enter Mrs. Hayes, as a tree walking</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i9">Behold our queen!</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr class="together">
								<td rowspan="1" epub:type="z3998:persona">All</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i1">Her eyes upon the ground</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">Before her feet she low'rs,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i1">Walking, in thought profound,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">As 'twere, upon all fours.</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i1">Her visage is austere,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">Her gait a high parade;</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i1">At every step you hear</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">The plashing lemonade!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mrs. Hayes</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<span>
											<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">to herself</i>
										</span>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>Once, sitting in the White House, hard at work</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Signing State papers (Rutherford was there,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Knitting some hose) a sudden glory fell</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Upon my paper. I looked up and saw</span>
											<br/>
											<span>An angel, holding in his hand a rod</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Wherewith he struck me. Smarting with the blow</span>
											<br/>
											<span>I rose and (cuffing Rutherford) inquired:</span>
											<br/>
											<span>"Wherefore this chastisement?" The angel said:</span>
											<br/>
											<span>"Four years you have been President, and still</span>
											<br/>
											<span>There's rum!"—then flew to Heaven. Contrite, I swore</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Such oath as lady Methodist might take,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>My second term should medicine my first.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>The people would not have it that way; so</span>
											<br/>
											<span>I seek some candidate who'll take my soul—</span>
											<br/>
											<span>My spirit of reform, fresh from my breast,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>And give me his instead; and thus equipped</span>
											<br/>
											<span>With my imperious and fiery essence,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Drive the Drink-Demon from the land and fill</span>
											<br/>
											<span>The people up with water till their teeth</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Are all afloat.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">St. John discovers himself.</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i3">What, <em>you</em>?</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">St. John</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i9">Aye, Madam, I'll</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Swap souls with you and lead the cold sea-green</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Amphibians of Prohibition on,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Pallid of nose and webbed of foot, swim-bladdered,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Gifted with gills, invincible!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mrs. Hayes</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i9">Enough,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Stand forth and consummate the interchange.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td/>
								<td>
									<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">While McDonald and Pitts-Stevens modestly turn their backs, the latter blushing a delicate shrimp-pink, St. John and Mrs. Hayes effect an exchange of immortal parts. When the transfer is complete McDonald turns and advances, uncorking a bottle of Vinegar Bitters.</i>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">McDonald</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">chanting</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i1">Nectar compounded of simples</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i2">Cocted in Stygian shades—</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">Acids of wrinkles and pimples</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i2">From faces of ancient maids—</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">Acrid precipitates sunken</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i2">From tempers of scolding wives</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">Whose husbands, sagaciously drunken,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i2">Rejoice in oblivious lives,—</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">With this I baptize and appoint thee</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">to St. John</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i2">To marshal the vinophobe ranks.</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">In Neptune's name I anoint thee</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">pours the liquid down St. John's back</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i2">As King of aquatical cranks!</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td/>
								<td>
									<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">The liquid blisters the royal back, and His Majesty starts on a dead run, energetically exclamatory. Exit St. John.</i>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mrs. Hayes</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>My soul! My soul! I'll never get it back</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Unless I follow nimbly on his track.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit Mrs. Hayes.</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pitts-Stevens</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>O my! he's such a beautiful young man!</span>
											<br/>
											<span>I'll follow, too, and wed him if I can.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit Pitts-Stevens.</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td rowspan="3" epub:type="z3998:persona">McDonald</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>He scarce is visible, his dust so great!</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Methinks for so obscure a candidate</span>
											<br/>
											<span>He runs quite well. But as for Prohibition—</span>
											<br/>
											<span>I mean myself to hold the first position.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Produces a pocket flask, topes a cruel quantity of double-distilled thunder-and-lightning out of it, smiles so grimly as to darken all the stage and sings:</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i1">Though fortunes vary, let all be merry,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">And then if e'er a disaster befall,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i1">At Styx's ferry is Charon's wherry</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">In easy call.</span>
									</p>
									<p>
										<span class="i1">Upon a ripple of golden tipple</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">That tipsy ship'll convey you best.</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i1">To king and cripple, the bottle's the nipple</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">Of Nature's breast!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td/>
								<td>
									<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Curtain.</i>
								</td>
							</tr>
						</tbody>
					</table>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="slickens" epub:type="z3998:drama">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Slickens</h3>
				<section id="slickens-dramatis-personae" epub:type="z3998:dramatis-personae">
					<h4 epub:type="title">Dramatis Personae</h4>
					<ul>
						<li>
							<p>Hayseed, a Granger</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>Nozzle, a Miner</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>Ringdivvy, a Statesman</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>Feegobble, a Lawyer</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>Junket, a Committee</p>
						</li>
					</ul>
				</section>
				<section id="slickens-scene" epub:type="z3998:scene">
					<header>
						<p>Scene—Yuba Dam.</p>
						<p>Feegobble, Ringdivvy, Nozzle</p>
					</header>
					<table>
						<tbody>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nozzle</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>My friends, since '51 I have pursued</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The evil tenor of my watery way,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Removing hills as by an act of faith—</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ringdivvy</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Just so; the steadfast faith of those who hold,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>In foreign lands beyond the Eastern sea,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The shares in your concern—a simple, blind,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Unreasoning belief in dividends,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Still stimulated by assessments which,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>When the stars fall, upon the backs of toads,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Will bring, no doubt, a very great return.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr class="together">
								<td rowspan="1" epub:type="z3998:persona">All</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">singing</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:song">
										<p>
											<span class="i3">O the adequate assessment,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">The annual assessment,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">The regular assessment,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i4">That makes the water flow.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ringdivvy</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:song">
									<p>
										<span class="i3">The rascally assessment!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Feegobble</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:song">
									<p>
										<span class="i3">The murderous assessment!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nozzle</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:song">
									<p>
										<span class="i3">The glorious assessment</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i4">That makes my mare to go!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Feegobble</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>But, Nozzle, you, I think, were on the point</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Of making a remark about some rights—</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Some certain vested rights you have acquired</span>
										<br/>
										<span>By long immunity; for still the law</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Holds that if one do evil undisturbed</span>
										<br/>
										<span>His right to do so ripens with the years;</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And one may be a villain long enough</span>
										<br/>
										<span>To make himself an honest gentleman.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr class="together">
								<td rowspan="1" epub:type="z3998:persona">All</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">singing</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:song">
										<p>
											<span class="i3">Hail, holy law,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">The soul with awe</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i4">Bows to thy dispensation.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nozzle</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:song">
									<p>
										<span class="i3">It breaks my jaw!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ringdivvy</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:song">
									<p>
										<span class="i3">It qualms my maw!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Feegobble</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:song">
									<p>
										<span class="i3">It feeds my jaw,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">It crams my maw,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i4">It is my soul's salvation!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nozzle</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Why, yes, I've floated mountains to the sea</span>
										<br/>
										<span>For lo! these many years; though some, they say,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Do strand themselves along the bottom lands</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And cover up a village here and there,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And here and there a ranch. 'Tis said, indeed,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The granger with his female and his young</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Does not infrequently go to the dickens</span>
										<br/>
										<span>By premature burial in slickens.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr class="together">
								<td rowspan="1" epub:type="z3998:persona">All</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">singing</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:song">
										<p>
											<span class="i3">Could slickens forever</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">Choke up the river,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">And slime's endeavor</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i4">Be tried on grain,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">How small the measure</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">Of granger's treasure,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i4">How keen his pain!</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ringdivvy</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<span>These rascal grangers would long since have been</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Submerged in slimes, to the last man of them,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But for the fact that all their wicked tribes</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Affect our legislation with their bribes.</span>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr class="together">
								<td rowspan="1" epub:type="z3998:persona">All</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">singing</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:song">
										<p>
											<span class="i3">O bribery's great—</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">'Tis a pillar of State,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i4">And the people they are free.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Feegobble</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:song">
									<p>
										<span class="i3">It smashes my slate!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nozzle</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:song">
									<p>
										<span class="i3">It is thievery straight!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ringdivvy</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:song">
									<p>
										<span class="i4">But it's been the making of me!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nozzle</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>I judge by certain shrewd sensations here</span>
											<br/>
											<span>In these callosities I call my thumbs—</span>
											<br/>
											<span>A thrilling sense as of ten thousand pins,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Red-hot and penetrant, transpiercing all</span>
											<br/>
											<span>The cuticle and tickling through the nerves—</span>
											<br/>
											<span>That some malign and awful thing draws near.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter Hayseed.</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>Good Lord! here are the ghosts and spooks of all</span>
											<br/>
											<span>The grangers I have decently interred,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Rolled into one!</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Feegobble</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i7">Plead, phantom.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ringdivvy</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i14">You've the floor.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hayseed</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i2">From the margin of the river</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">(Bitter Creek, they sometimes call it)</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">Where I cherished once the pumpkin,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">And the summer squash promoted,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">Harvested the sweet potato,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">Dallied with the fatal melon</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">And subdued the fierce cucumber,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">I've been driven by the slickens,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">Driven by the slimes and tailings!</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">All my family—my Polly</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">Ann and all my sons and daughters,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">Dog and baby both included—</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">All were swamped in seas of slickens,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">Buried fifty fathoms under,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">Where they lie, prepared to play their</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">Gentle prank on geologic</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">Gents that shall exhume them later,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">In the dim and distant future,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">Taking them for melancholy</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">Relics antedating Adam.</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">I alone got up and dusted.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nozzle</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Avaunt! you horrid and infernal shape!</span>
										<br/>
										<span>What dire distress have you prepared for us?</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ringdivvy</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i1">Were I a buzzard stooping from the sky</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">My craw with filth to fill,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i1">Into your honorable body I</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">Would introduce a bill.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Feegobble</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Defendant, hence, or, by the gods, I'll brain thee!—</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Unless you saved some turnips to retain me.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hayseed</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>As I was saying, I got up and dusted,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>My ranch a graveyard and my business busted!</span>
										<br/>
										<span>But hearing that a fellow from the City,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Who calls himself a Citizens' Committee,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Was coming up to play the very dickens,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>With those who cover up our farms with slickens,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And make himself—unless I am in error—</span>
										<br/>
										<span>To all such miscreants a holy terror,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>I thought if I would join the dialogue</span>
										<br/>
										<span>I maybe might get payment for my dog.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr class="together">
								<td rowspan="1" epub:type="z3998:persona">All</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">singing</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:song">
										<p>
											<span>O the dog is the head of Creation,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">Prime work of the Master's hand;</span>
											<br/>
											<span>He hasn't a known occupation,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">Yet lives on the fat of the land.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Adipose, indolent, sleek and orbicular,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Sun-soaken, door matted, cross and particular,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Men, women, children, all coddle and wait on him,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Then, accidentally shutting the gate on him,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Miss from their calves, ever after, the rifted out</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Mouthful of tendons that doggy has lifted out!</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter Junket.</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Junket</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Well met, my hearties! I must trouble you</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Jointly and severally to provide</span>
										<br/>
										<span>A comfortable carriage, with relays</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Of hardy horses. This Committee means</span>
										<br/>
										<span>To move in state about the country here.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>I shall expect at every place I stop</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Good beds, of course, and everything that's nice,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>With bountiful repast of meat and wine.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>For this Committee comes to see and mark</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And inwardly digest.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hayseed</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i9">Digest my dog!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nozzle</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>First square my claim for damages: the gold</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Escaping with the slickens keeps me poor!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Ringdivvy</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>I merely would remark that if you'd grease</span>
										<br/>
										<span>My itching palm it would more glibly glide</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Into the public pocket.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Feegobble</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i10">Sir, the wheels</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Of justice move but slowly till they're oiled.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>I have some certain writs and warrants here,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Prepared against your advent. You recall</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The tale of Zaccheus who did climb a tree,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And Jesus said: "Come down"?</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">junket</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i13">Why, bless your souls!</span>
										<br/>
										<span>I've got no money; I but came to see</span>
										<br/>
										<span>What all this noisy babble is about,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Make a report and file the same away.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr class="together">
								<td rowspan="1" epub:type="z3998:persona">Nozzle, Ringdivvy, Feegobble, Hayseed</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>How'll that help <em>us</em>? Reports are not our style</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Of provender!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Junket</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i6">Well, you can gnaw the file.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
						</tbody>
					</table>
					<p>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Curtain.</i>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="peaceable-expulsion" epub:type="z3998:drama">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Peaceable Expulsion</h3>
				<section id="peaceable-expulsion-dramatis-personae" epub:type="z3998:dramatis-personae">
					<h4 epub:type="title">Dramatis Personae</h4>
					<ul>
						<li>
							<p>Mountwave, a Politician</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>Hardhand, a Workingman</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>Tok Bak, a Chinaman</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>Satan, a Friend to Mountwave</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>Chorus of Foreign Voters</p>
						</li>
					</ul>
				</section>
				<section id="peaceable-expulsion-scene" epub:type="z3998:scene">
					<table>
						<tbody>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mountwave</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>My friend, I beg that you will lend your ears</span>
										<br/>
										<span>(I know 'tis asking a good deal of you)</span>
										<br/>
										<span>While I for your instruction nominate</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Some certain wrongs you suffer. Men like you</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Imperfectly are sensible of all</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The miseries they actually feel.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Hence, Providence has prudently raised up</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Clear-sighted men like me to diagnose</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Their cases and inform them where it hurts.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The wounds of honest workingmen I've made</span>
										<br/>
										<span>A specialty, and probing them's my trade.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hardhand</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Well, Mister, s'pose you let yer bossest eye</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Camp on my mortal part awhile; then you</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Jes' toot my sufferin's an' tell me what's</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The fashionable caper now in writhes—</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The very swellest wiggle.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mountwave</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i11">Well, my lad,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>'Tis plain as is the long, conspicuous nose</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Borne, ponderous and pendulous, between</span>
											<br/>
											<span>The elephant's remarkable eye-teeth</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter Tok Bak.</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>That Chinese competition's what ails <em>you</em>.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr class="together">
								<td rowspan="1" epub:type="z3998:persona">Both</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">singing</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:song">
										<p>
											<span class="i3">O pig-tail Celestial,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">O barbarous, bestial,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i4">Abominable Chinee!</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">Simian fellow man,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">Primitive yellow man,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i4">Joshian devotee!</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">Shoe-and-cigar machine,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">Oleomargarine</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i4">You are, and butter are we—</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">Fat of the land are we,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i4">Salt of the earth;</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">In God's image planned to be—</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i4">Noble in birth!</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">You, on the contrary,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">Modeled upon very</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i4">Different lines indeed,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">Show in conspicuous,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">Base and ridiculous</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i4">Ways your inferior breed.</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">Freak of biology,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">Shame of ethnology,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i4">Monster unspeakably low!</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">Fit to be buckshotted—</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">Brickbatted, boycotted—</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i4">Vanish—vamoose—mosy—Go!</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tok Bak</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>You listen me! You beatee the big dlum</span>
											<br/>
											<span>An' tell me go to Flowly Kingdom Come.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>You all too muchee fool. You chinnee heap.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Such talkee like my washee—belly cheap!</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter Satan.</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>You dlive me outee clunty towns all way;</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Why you no tackle me Safflisco, hay?</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Satan</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Methought I heard a murmuring of tongues</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Sound through the ceiling of the hollow earth,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>As if the anti-coolie ques—ha! friends,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Well met. You see I keep my ancient word:</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Where two or three are gathered in my name,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>There am I in their midst.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mountwave</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i11">O monstrous thief!</span>
										<br/>
										<span>To quote the words of Shakespeare as your own.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>I know his work.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hardhand</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i7">Who's Shakespeare?—what's his trade?</span>
										<br/>
										<span>I've heard about the work o' that galoot</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Till I'm jest sick!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Tok Bak</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i7">Go Sunny school—you'll know</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Mo' Bible. Bime by pleach—hell-talkee. Tell</span>
										<br/>
										<span>'Bout Abel—mebby so he live too cheap.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>He mebby all time dig on lanch—no dlink,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>No splee—no go plocession fo' make vote—</span>
										<br/>
										<span>No sendee money out of clunty fo'</span>
										<br/>
										<span>To helpee Ilishmen. Cain killum. Josh</span>
										<br/>
										<span>He catchee at it, an' he belly mad—</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Say: "Allee Melicans boycottee Cain."</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Not muchee—you no pleachee that:</span>
										<br/>
										<span>You all same lie.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mountwave</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i7">This cuss must be expelled.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Draws pistol.</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr class="together">
								<td rowspan="1" epub:type="z3998:persona">Mountwave, Hardhand, Satan</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">singing</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:song">
										<p>
											<span class="i3">For Chinese expulsion, hurrah!</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i4">To mobbing and murder, all hail!</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">Away with your justice and law—</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i4">We'll make every pagan turn tail.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Chorus of Foreign Voters</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i3">Bedad! oof dot tief o'ze vorld—</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">Zat Ivan Tchanay vos got hurled</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">In Hella, da debil he say:</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">"Wor be yer return pairmit, hey?"</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">Und gry as 'e shaka da boot:</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">"Zis haythen haf nevaire been oot!"</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hardhand</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Too many cooks are working at this broth—</span>
										<br/>
										<span>I think, by thunder, 'twill be mostly froth!</span>
										<br/>
										<span>I'm cussed ef I can sarvy, up to date,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>What good this dern fandango does the State.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Mountwave</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>The State's advantage, sir, you may not see,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>But think how good it is for me.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Satan</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i14">And me.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
						</tbody>
					</table>
					<p>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Curtain.</i>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="aspirants-three" epub:type="z3998:drama">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Aspirants Three</h3>
				<section id="aspirants-three-dramatis-personae" epub:type="z3998:dramatis-personae">
					<h4 epub:type="title">Dramatis Personae</h4>
					<p>Quick</p>
					<ul>
						<li>
							<p>De Young, a Brother to Mushrooms</p>
						</li>
					</ul>
					<p>Dead</p>
					<ul>
						<li>
							<p>Swift, an Heirloom</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>Estee, a Relic</p>
						</li>
					</ul>
					<p>Immortals</p>
					<ul>
						<li>
							<p>The Spirit of Broken Hopes. The Author.</p>
						</li>
					</ul>
					<p>Miscellaneous</p>
					<ul>
						<li>
							<p>A Troupe of Coffins. The Moon. Various Colored Fires.</p>
						</li>
					</ul>
				</section>
				<section id="peaceable-expulsion-scene" epub:type="z3998:scene">
					<header>
						<p>Scene—The Political Graveyard at Bone Mountain.</p>
					</header>
					<table>
						<tbody>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">De Young</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>This is the spot agreed upon. Here rest</span>
											<br/>
											<span>The sainted statesman who upon the field</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Of honor have at divers times laid down</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Their own, and ended, ignominious,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Their lives political. About me, lo!</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Their silent headstones, gilded by the moon,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Half-full and near her setting—midnight. Hark!</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Through the white mists of this portentous night</span>
											<br/>
											<span>(Which throng in moving shapes about my way,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>As they were ghosts of candidates I've slain,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>To fray their murderer) my open ear,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Engulfs a footstep.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter Estee from his tomb.</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i8">Ah, 'tis he, my foe,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>True to appointment; and so here we fight—</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Though truly 'twas my firm belief that he</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Would send regrets, or I had not been here.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Estee</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>O moon that hast so oft surprised the deeds</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Whereby I rose to greatness!—tricksy orb,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>The type and symbol of my politics,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Now draw my ebbing fortunes to their flood,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>As, by the magic of a poultice, boils</span>
											<br/>
											<span>That burn ambitions with defeated fires</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Are lifted into eminence.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sees De Young.</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i11">What? you!</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Faith, if I had suspected you would come</span>
											<br/>
											<span>From the fair world of politics wherein</span>
											<br/>
											<span>So lately you were whelped, and which, alas,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>I vainly to revisit strive, though still</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Rapped on the rotting head and bidden sleep</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Till Resurrection's morn,—if I had thought</span>
											<br/>
											<span>You would accept the challenge that I flung</span>
											<br/>
											<span>I would have seen you damned ere I came forth</span>
											<br/>
											<span>In the night air, shroud-clad and shivering,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>To fight so mean a thing! But since you're here,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Draw and defend yourself. By gad, we'll <em>see</em></span>
											<br/>
											<span>Who'll be Postmaster-General!</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">De Young</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i13">We will—</span>
										<br/>
										<span>I'll fight (for I am lame) with any blue</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And redolent remain that dares aspire</span>
										<br/>
										<span>To wreck the Grand Old Grandson's cabinet.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Here's at you, nosegay!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td/>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They draw tongues and are about to fight, when from an adjacent whited sepulcher, enter Swift.</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Swift</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i10">Hold! put up your tongues!</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Within the confines of this sacred spot</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Broods such a holy calm as none may break</span>
											<br/>
											<span>By clash of weapons, without sacrilege.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Beats down their tongues with a bone.</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>Madmen! what profits it? For though you fought</span>
											<br/>
											<span>With such heroic skill that both survived,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Yet neither should achieve the prize, for I</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Would wrest it from him. Let us not contend,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>But friendliwise by stipulation fix</span>
											<br/>
											<span>A slate for mutual advantage. Why,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Having the pick and choice of seats, should we</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Forego them all but one? Nay, we'll take three,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>And part them so among us that to each</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Shall fall the fittest to his powers. In brief,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Let us establish a Portfolio Trust.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Estee</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Agreed.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">De Young</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i5">Aye, truly, 'tis a greed—and one</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The offices imperfectly will sate,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>But I'll stand in.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Swift</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i8">Well, so 'tis understood,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>As you're the junior member of the Trust,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Politically younger and undead,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Speak, Michael: what portfolio do you choose?</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">De Young</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>I've thought the Postal service best would serve</span>
											<br/>
											<span>My interest; but since I have my pick,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>I'll take the War Department. It is known</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Throughout the world, from Market street to Pine,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>(For a Chicago journal told the tale)</span>
											<br/>
											<span>How in this hand I lately took my life</span>
											<br/>
											<span>And marched against great Buckley, thundering</span>
											<br/>
											<span>My mandate that he count the ballots fair!</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Earth heard and shrank to half her size! Yon moon,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Which rivaled then a liver's whiteness, paused</span>
											<br/>
											<span>That night at Butchertown and daubed her face</span>
											<br/>
											<span>With sheep's blood! Then my serried rank I drew</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Back to my stronghold without loss. To mark</span>
											<br/>
											<span>My care in saving human life and limb,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>The Peace Society bestowed on me</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Its leather medal and the title, too,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Of Colonel. Yes, my genius is for war. Good land!</span>
											<br/>
											<span>I naturally dote on a brass band!</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sings.</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:song">
										<p>
											<span class="i1">O, give me a life on the tented field,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i2">Where the cannon roar and ring,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">Where the flag floats free and the foemen yield</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i2">And bleed as the bullets sing.</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">But be it not mine to wage the fray</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">Where matters are ordered the other way,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i2">For that is a different thing.</span>
										</p>
										<p>
											<span class="i1">O, give me a life in the fierce campaign—</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i2">Let it be the life of my foe:</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">I'd rather fall upon him than the plain;</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i2">That service I'd fain forego.</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">O, a warrior's life is fine and free,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">But a warrior's death—ah me! ah me!</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i2">That's a different thing, you know.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Estee</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Some claim I might myself advance to that</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Portfolio. When Rebellion raised her head,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And you, my friends, stayed meekly in your shirts,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>I marched with banners to the party stump,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Spat on my hands, made faces fierce as death,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Shook my two fists at once and introduced</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Brave resolutions terrible to read!</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Nay, only recently, as you do know,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>I conquered Treason by the word of mouth,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And slew again (to her surprise) the South!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Swift</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>You once fought Stanford, too.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Estee</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i13">Enough of that—</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Give me the Interior and I'll devote</span>
										<br/>
										<span>My mind to agriculture and improve</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The breed of cabbages, especially</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The <i xml:lang="la">Brassica Celeritatis</i>, named</span>
										<br/>
										<span>For <em>you</em> because in days of long ago</span>
										<br/>
										<span>You sold it at your market stall,—and, faith,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>'Tis said you were an honest huckster then.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>I'll be Attorney-General if you</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Prefer; for know I am a lawyer too!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Swift</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>I never have heard that!—have you, De Young?</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">De Young</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Never, so help me! And I swear I've heard</span>
										<br/>
										<span>A score of Judges say that he is not.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Swift</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">to Estee</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>You take the Interior. I might aspire</span>
											<br/>
											<span>To military station too, for once</span>
											<br/>
											<span>I led my party into Pixley's camp,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>And he paroled me. I defended, too,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>The State of Oregon against the sharp</span>
											<br/>
											<span>And bloody tooth of the Australian sheep.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>But I've an aptitude exceeding neat</span>
											<br/>
											<span>For bloodless battles of diplomacy.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>My cobweb treaty of Exclusion once,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Through which a hundred thousand coolies sailed,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Was much admired, but most by Colonel Bee.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Though born a tinker, I'm a diplomat</span>
											<br/>
											<span>From old Missouri, and I—ha! what's this?</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td/>
								<td>
									<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit Moon. Enter Blue Lights on all the tombs, and a circle of Red Fire on the grass; in the center the Spirit of Broken Hopes, and round about, a Troupe of Coffins, dancing and singing.</i>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Chorus of Coffins</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i3">Two bodies dead and one alive—</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i4">Yo, ho, merrily all!</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">Now for office strain and strive—</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i4">Buzzards all a-warble, O!</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">Prophets three, agape for bread;</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">Raven with a stone instead—</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i4">Providential raven!</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">Judges two and Colonel one—</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">Run, run, rustics, run!</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">But it's O, the pig is shaven,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i4">And oily, oily all!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td/>
								<td>
									<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt Coffins, dancing. The Spirit of Broken Hopes advances, solemnly pointing at each of the Three Worthies in turn.</i>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Spirit of Broken Hopes</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i1">Governor, Governor, editor man,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">Rusty, musty, spick-and-span,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">Harlequin, harridan, dicky-dout,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">Demagogue, charlatan—<i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">o</i>, <i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">u</i>, <i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">t</i>, <b>out</b>!</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">De Young falls and sleeps.</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i2">Antimonopoler, diplomat,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i2">Railroad lackey, political rat,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i2">One, two, three—<b>scat</b>!</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Swift falls and sleeps.</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>Boycotting chin-worker, working to woo</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Fortune, the fickle, to smile upon <em>you</em></span>
											<br/>
											<span>Jo-coated acrobat, shuttle-cock—<b>shoo</b>!</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Estee falls and sleeps.</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i1">Now they lie in slumber sweet,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">Now the charm is all complete,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">Hasten I with flying feet</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">Where beyond the farther sea</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">A babe upon its mother's knee</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">Is gazing into skies afar</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">And crying for a golden star.</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">I'll drag a cloud across the blue</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">And break that infant's heart in two!</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td/>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt the Spirit of Broken Hopes and the Red and Blue Fires. Re-enter Moon.</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Estee</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">waking</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>Why, this is strange! I dreamed I know not what,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>It seemed that certain apparitions were,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Which sang uncanny words, significant</span>
											<br/>
											<span>And yet ambiguous—half-understood—</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Portending evil; and an awful spook,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Even as I stood with my accomplices,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Counted me out, as children do in play.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Is that you, Mike?</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">De Young</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">waking</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i8">It was.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Swift</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">waking</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i12">And I all that?</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Then I'll reform my life.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Reforms his life.</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i11">Ah! had I known</span>
											<br/>
											<span>How sweet it is to be an honest man</span>
											<br/>
											<span>I never would have stooped to turn my coat</span>
											<br/>
											<span>For public favor, as chameleons take</span>
											<br/>
											<span>The hue (as near as they can judge) of that</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Supporting them. Henceforth I'll buy</span>
											<br/>
											<span>With money all the offices I need,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>And know the profit of an honest life,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Or stay forever in this dismal place.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Now that I'm good, it will no longer do</span>
											<br/>
											<span>To make a third with such, a wicked two.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Returns to his tomb.</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">De Young</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>Prophetic dream! by some good angel sent</span>
											<br/>
											<span>To make me with a quiet life content.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>The question shall no more my bosom irk,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>To go to Washington or go to work.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>From Fame's debasing struggle I'll withdraw,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>And taking up the pen lay down the law.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>I'll leave this rogue, lest my example make</span>
											<br/>
											<span>An honest man of him—his heart would break.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit De Young.</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Estee</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>Out of my company these converts flee,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>But that advantage is denied to me:</span>
											<br/>
											<span>My curst identity's confining skin</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Nor lets me out nor tolerates me in.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Well, since my hopes eternally have fled,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>And, dead before, I'm more than ever dead,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>To find a grander tomb be now my task,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>And pack my pork into a stolen cask.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td/>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit, searching. Loud calls for the Author, who appears, bowing and smiling. Enter Faint Odor of Mortality. Exit the Gas.</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
						</tbody>
					</table>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="the-birth-of-the-rail" epub:type="z3998:drama">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Birth of the Rail</h3>
				<section id="aspirants-three-dramatis-personae" epub:type="z3998:dramatis-personae">
					<h4 epub:type="title">Dramatis Personae</h4>
					<ul>
						<li>
							<p>Leland, The Kid, a Road Agent</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>Cowboy Charley, Same Line of Business</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>Happy Hunty, Ditto in All Respects</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>Sootymug, a Devil</p>
						</li>
					</ul>
				</section>
				<section id="the-birth-of-the-rail-scene" epub:type="z3998:scene">
					<header>
						<p>Scene—The Dutch Flat Stage Road, at 12 P.M., on a Night of 1864.</p>
					</header>
					<table>
						<tbody>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cowboy Charley</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>I fear the coach will not come by to-night.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Already it is past the hour, and yet</span>
										<br/>
										<span>My ears have reached no sound of wheels; no note</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Melodious, of long, luxurious oaths</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Betokens the traditional dispute</span>
										<br/>
										<span>(Unsettled from the dawn of time) between</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The driver and off wheeler; no clear chant</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Nor carol of Wells Fargo's messenger</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Unbosoming his soul upon the air—</span>
										<br/>
										<span>his prowess to the tender-foot,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And how at divers times in sundry ways</span>
										<br/>
										<span>He strewed the roadside with our carcasses.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Clearly, the stage-coach will not pass to-night.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Leland, The Kid</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>I now remember that but yesterday</span>
										<br/>
										<span>I saw three ugly looking fellows start</span>
										<br/>
										<span>From Colfax with a gun apiece, and they</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Did seem on business of importance bent,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Furtively casting all their eyes about</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And covering their tracks with all the care</span>
										<br/>
										<span>That business men do use. I think perhaps</span>
										<br/>
										<span>They were Directors of that rival line,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The great Pacific Mail. If so, they have</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Indubitably taken in that coach,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And we are overreached. Three times before</span>
										<br/>
										<span>This thing has happened, and if once again</span>
										<br/>
										<span>These outside operators dare to cut</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Our rates of profit I shall quit the road</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And take my money out of this concern.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>When robbery no longer pays expense</span>
										<br/>
										<span>It loses then its chiefest charm for me,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And I prefer to cheat—you hear me shout!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Happy Hunty</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>My chief, you do but echo back my thoughts:</span>
										<br/>
										<span>This competition is the death of trade.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>'Tis plain (unless we wish to go to work)</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Some other business we must early find.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>What shall it be? The field of usefulness</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Is yearly narrowing with the advance</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Of wealth and population on this coast.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>There's little left that any man can do</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Without some other fellow stepping in</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And doing it as well. If one essay</span>
										<br/>
										<span>To pick a pocket he is sure to feel</span>
										<br/>
										<span>(With what disgust I need not say to you)</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Another hand inserted in the same.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>You crack a crib at dead of night, and lo!</span>
										<br/>
										<span>As you explore the dining-room for plate</span>
										<br/>
										<span>You find, in session there, a graceless band</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Stuffing their coats with spoons, their skins with wine.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And so it goes. Why even undertake</span>
										<br/>
										<span>To salt a mine and you will find it rich</span>
										<br/>
										<span>With noble specimens placed there before!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Leland, The Kid</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>And yet this line of immigration has</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Advantages superior to aught</span>
										<br/>
										<span>That elsewhere offers: all these passengers,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>If punched with care—</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cowboy Charley</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i10">Significant remark!</span>
										<br/>
										<span>It opens up a prospect wide and fair,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Suggesting to the thoughtful mind—<em>my</em> mind—</span>
										<br/>
										<span>A scheme that is the boss lay-out. Instead</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Of stopping passengers, let's carry them.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Instead of crying out: "Throw up your hands!"</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Let's say: "Walk up and buy a ticket!" Why</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Should we unwieldy goods and bullion take,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Watches and all such trifles, when we might</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Far better charge their value three times o'er</span>
										<br/>
										<span>For carrying them to market?</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Leland, The Kid</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i12">Put it there,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Old son!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Happy Hunty</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i4">You take the cake, my dear. We'll build</span>
										<br/>
										<span>A mighty railroad through this pass, and then</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The stage folk will come up to us and squeal,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And say: "It is bad medicine for both;</span>
										<br/>
										<span>What will you give or take?" And then we'll sell.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Cowboy Charley</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Enlarge your notions, little one; this is</span>
										<br/>
										<span>No petty, slouching, opposition scheme,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>To be bought off like honest men and fools;</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Mine eye prophetic pierces through the mists</span>
										<br/>
										<span>That cloud the future, and I seem to see</span>
										<br/>
										<span>A well-devised and executed scheme</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Of wholesale robbery within the law</span>
										<br/>
										<span>(Made by ourselves)—great, permanent, sublime,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And strong to grapple with the public throat—</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Shaking the stuffing from the public purse,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The tears from bankrupt merchants' eyes, the blood</span>
										<br/>
										<span>From widows' famished carcasses, the bread</span>
										<br/>
										<span>From orphans' mouths!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Happy Hunty</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i10">Hooray!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Leland, The Kid</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i14">Hooray!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr class="together">
								<td rowspan="3" epub:type="z3998:persona">All</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i18">Hooray!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr class="together">
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They tear the masks from their faces, and discharging their shotguns, throw them into the chaparral. Then they join hands, dance and sing the following song.</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr class="together">
								<td epub:type="z3998:song">
									<p>
										<span class="i3">Ah! blessed to measure</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">The glittering treasure!</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i4">Ah! blessed to heap up the gold</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i6">Untold</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">That flows in a wide</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">And deepening tide—</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i4">Rolled, rolled, rolled</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">From multifold sources,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">Converging its courses</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i4">Upon our—</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Leland, The Kid</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Just wait a bit, my pards, I seem to hear</span>
										<br/>
										<span>A sneaking grizzly cracking the dry twigs.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Such an intrusion might deprive the State</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Of all the good that we intend it. Ha!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td/>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter Sootymug. He saunters carelessly in and gracefully leans his back against a redwood.</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Sootymug</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i2">My boys, I thought I heard</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">Some careless revelry,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">As if your minds were stirred</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">By some new devilry.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>I too am in that line. Indeed, the mission</span>
										<br/>
										<span>On which I come—</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Happy Hunty</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i8">Here's more damned competition!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
						</tbody>
					</table>
					<p epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Curtain.</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="a-bad-night" epub:type="z3998:drama">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Bad Night</h3>
				<section id="a-bad-night-dramatis-personae" epub:type="z3998:dramatis-personae">
					<h4 epub:type="title">Dramatis Personae</h4>
					<ul>
						<li>
							<p>Villiam, a Sen</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>Needleson, a Sidniduc</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>Smiler, a Scheister</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>Ki-Yi, a Trader</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>Grimghast, a Spader</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>Saralthia, a Love-lorn Nymph</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>Nellibrac, a Sweetun</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>A Body; A Ghost; An Unmentionable Thing; Skulls; Hoodoos; etc.</p>
						</li>
					</ul>
				</section>
				<section id="a-bad-night-scene" epub:type="z3998:scene">
					<header>
						<p>Scene—a Cemetery in San Francisco.</p>
						<p>Saralthia, Nellibrac, Grimghast.</p>
					</header>
					<table>
						<tbody>
							<tr>
								<td rowspan="7" epub:type="z3998:persona">SARALTHIA</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>The red half-moon is dipping to the west,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And the cold fog invades the sleeping land.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Lo! how the grinning skulls in the level light</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Litter the place! Methinks that every skull</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Is a most lifelike portrait of my Sen,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Drawn by the hand of Death; each fleshless pate,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Cursed with a ghastly grin to eyes unrubbed</span>
										<br/>
										<span>With love's magnetic ointment, seems to mine</span>
										<br/>
										<span>To smile an amiable smile like his</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Whose amiable smile I—I alone</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Am able to distinguish from his leer!</span>
										<br/>
										<span>See how the gathering coyotes flit</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Through the lit spaces, or with burning eyes</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Star the black shadows with a steadfast gaze!</span>
										<br/>
										<span>About my feet the poddy toads at play,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Bulbously comfortable, try to hop,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And tumble clumsily with all their warts;</span>
										<br/>
										<span>While pranking lizards, sliding up and down</span>
										<br/>
										<span>My limbs, as they were public roads, impart</span>
										<br/>
										<span>A singularly interesting chill.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The circumstance and passion of the time,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The cast and manner of the place—the spirit</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Of this confederate environment,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Command the rights we come to celebrate</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Obedient to the Inspired Hag—</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The seventh daughter of the seventh daughter,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Who rules all destinies from Minna street,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>A dollar a destiny. Here at this grave,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Which for my purposes thou, Jack of Spades—</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To Grimghast</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Corrupter than the thing that reeks below—</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Hast opened secretly, we'll work the charm.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Now what's the hour?</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Distant clock strikes thirteen.</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i10">Enough—hale forth the stiff!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Grimghast by means of a boat-hook stands the coffin on end in the excavation; the lid crumbles, exposing the remains of a man.</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Ha! Master Mouldybones, how fare you, sir?</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">The Body</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Poorly, I thank your ladyship; I miss</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Some certain fingers and an ear or two.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>There's something, too, gone wrong with my inside,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And my periphery's not what it was.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>How can we serve each other, you and I?</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nellibrac</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>O what a personable man!</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Blushes bashfully, drops her eyes and twists the corner of her apron.</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Saralthia</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i11">Yes, dear,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>A very proper and alluring male,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And quite superior to Lubin Rroyd,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Who has, however, this distinct advantage—</span>
										<br/>
										<span>He is alive.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Grimghast</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i5">Missus, these yer remains</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Was the boss singer back in '72,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And used to allers git invites to go</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Down to Swellmont and sing at every feed.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>In t'other Villiam's time, that was, afore</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The gent that you've hooked onto bought the place.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">The Body</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">singing</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:song">
										<p>
											<span class="i3">Down among the sainted dead</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i4">Many years I lay;</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">Beetles occupied my head,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i4">Moles explored my clay.</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">There we feasted day and night—</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i4">I and bug and beast;</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">They provided appetite</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i4">And I supplied the feast.</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">The raven is a dicky-bird,</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Saralthia</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">singing</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:song">
										<p>
											<span class="i4">The jackal is a daisy,</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nellibrac</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">singing</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:song">
										<p>
											<span class="i3">The wall-mouse is a worthy third,</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">A Spook</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">singing</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:song">
										<p>
											<span class="i4">But mortals all are crazy.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Chorus Of Skulls</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:song">
									<p>
										<span class="i4">O mortals all are crazy,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i4">Their intellects are hazy;</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i2">In the growing moon they shake their shoon</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i4">And trip it in the mazy.</span>
									</p>
									<p>
										<span class="i4">But when the moon is waning,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i4">Their senses they're regaining:</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">They fall to prayer and from their hair</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i4">Remove the straws remaining.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Saralthia</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>That's right, Rogues Gallery, pray keep it up:</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Your song recalls my Villiam's "Auld Lang Syne,"</span>
										<br/>
										<span>What time he came and (like an amorous bird</span>
										<br/>
										<span>That struts before the female of its kind,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Warbling its knightly preference) piped high</span>
										<br/>
										<span>His cracked falsetto out of reach. Enough—</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Now let's to business. Nellibrac, sweet child,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>St. Cloacina's future devotee,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The time is ripe and rotten—gut the grip!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td/>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Nellibrac brings forward a valise and takes from it five articles of clothing, which, one by one, she lays upon the points of a magic pentagram that has thoughtfully inscribed itself in lines of light on the wet grass. The Body holds its late lamented nose.</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nellibrac</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">singing</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:song">
										<p>
											<span class="i3">Fragrant socks, by Villiam's toes</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">Consecrated to the nose;</span>
										</p>
										<p>
											<span class="i3">Shirt that shows the well worn track</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">Of the knuckles of his back,</span>
										</p>
										<p>
											<span class="i3">Handkerchief with mottled stains,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">Into which he blew his brains;</span>
										</p>
										<p>
											<span class="i3">Collar crying out for soap—</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">Prophet of the future rope;</span>
										</p>
										<p>
											<span class="i3">An unmentionable thing</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">It would sicken me to sing.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Unmentionable Thing</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">aside</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>What! <em>I</em> unmentionable? Just you wait!</span>
											<br/>
											<span>In all the family journals of the State</span>
											<br/>
											<span>You'll sometime see that I'm described at length,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>With supereditorial grace and strength.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Saralthia</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">singing</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:song">
										<p>
											<span class="i3">Throw them in the open tomb</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">They will cause his love to bloom</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">With an amatory boom!</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Chorus of Invisible Hoodoos</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i3">Hoodoo, hoodoo, voudou-vet</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">Villiam struggles in the net!</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">By the power and intent</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">Of the charm his strength is spent!</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">By the virtue in each rag</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">Blessed by the Inspired Hag</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">He will be a willing victim</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">Limp as if a donkey kicked him!</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">By this awful incantation</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">We decree his animation—</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">By the magic of our art</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">Warm the cockles of his heart,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">Villiam, if alive or dead,</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i3">Thou Saralthia shalt wed!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td/>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">They cast the garments into the grave and push over the coffin. Grimghast fills up the hole. Hoodoos gradually become apparent in a phosphorescent light about the grave, holding one another's back-hair and dancing in a circle.</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Hoodos</td>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">singing</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:song">
										<p>
											<span class="i1">O we're the larrikin hoodoos!</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">The chirruping, lirruping hoodoos!</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">We mix things up that the Fates ordain,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">Bring back the past and the present detain,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">Postpone the future and sometimes tether</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">The three and drive them abreast together—</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">We rollicking, frolicking hoodoos!</span>
										</p>
										<p>
											<span class="i1">To us all things are the same as none</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">And nothing is that is under the sun.</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">Seven's a dozen and never is then,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">Whether is what and what is when,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">A man is a tree and a cuckoo a cow</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">For gold galore and silver enow</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">To magical, mystical hoodoos!</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Saralthia</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>What monstrous shadow darkens all the place,</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">enter Smyler</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>Flung like a doom athwart—ha!—thou?</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Portentous presence, art thou not the same</span>
											<br/>
											<span>That stalks with aspect horrible among</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Small youths and maidens, baring snaggy teeth,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Champing their tender limbs till crimson spume,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Flung from, thy lips in cursing God and man,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Incarnadines the land?</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Smyler</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i10">Thou dammid slut!</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit Smyler.</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nellibrac</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>O what a pretty man!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Saralthia</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span class="i10">Now who is next?</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Of tramps and casuals this graveyard seems</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Prolific to a fault!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td/>
								<td>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter Needleson, exhaling, prophetically, an odor of decayed eggs and, actually, one of unlaundried linen. He darts an intense regard at an adjacent marble angel and places his open hand behind his ear.</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Needleson</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i8">Hay?</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exit Needleson.</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Nellibrac</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i11">Sweet, sweet male!</span>
											<br/>
											<span>I yearn to play at Copenhagen with him!</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p class="right">
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Blushes diligently and energetically.</i>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Chorus of Skulls</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i1">Hoodoos, hoodoos, disappear—</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">Some dread deity draws near!</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Exeunt Hoodos.</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span class="i1">Smitten with a sense of doom,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">The dead are cowering in the tomb,</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">Seas are calling, stars are falling</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">And appalling is the gloom!</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">Fragmentary flames are flung</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">Through the air the trees among!</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">Lo! each hill inclines its head—</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">Earth is bending 'neath his tread!</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
						</tbody>
					</table>
					<p>
						<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">On the contrary, enter Villiam on a chip, navigating an odor of mignonette. Saralthia springs forward to put him in her pocket, but he is instantly retracted by an invisible string. She falls headlong, breaking her heart. Reenter Villiam, Needleson, Smyler. All gather about Saralthia, who loudly laments her accident. The Spirit of Tar-and Feathers, rising like a black smoke in their midst, executes a monstrous wink of graphic and vivid significance, then contemplates them with an obviously baptismal intention. The cross on Bone Mountain takes fire, splendoring the peninsula. Tableau. Curtain.</i>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
		</section>
		<section id="on-stone" epub:type="division">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h2 epub:type="title">On Stone</h2>
					<h3 epub:type="subtitle">Some Ante-Mortem Epitaphs</h3>
				</hgroup>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span>As in a dream, strange epitaphs I see,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Inscribed on yet unquarried stone,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Where wither flowers yet unstrown—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The Campo Santo of the time to be.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<article id="george-francis-train" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
						<h4 epub:type="title">George Francis Train</h4>
					</hgroup>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>(Inscribed on a Pork-barrel.)</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Beneath this casket rots unknown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A Thing that merits not a stone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Save that by passing urchin cast;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose fame and virtues we express</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By transient urn of emptiness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With apt inscription (to its past</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Relating—and to his): “Prime Mess.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No honour had this infidel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That doth not appertain, as well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To haltered caitiff on the drop;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No wit that would not likewise pass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For wisdom in the famished ass</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who breaks his neck a weed to crop,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When tethered in the luscious grass.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And now, thank God, his hateful name</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall never rescued be from shame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though seas of venal ink be shed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No sophistry shall reconcile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With sympathy for Erin’s Isle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or sorrow for her patriot dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The weeping of this crocodile.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Life’s incongruity is past,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dirt to dirt is seen at last,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The worm of worm afoul doth fall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sexton tolls his solemn bell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For scoundrel dead and gone to—well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It matters not, it can’t recall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This convict from his final cell.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-king-of-craft" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">A King of Craft</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Here lies Sam Chamberlain ; his fatal smile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Survives its wielder for a little while</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In nightmares of the prudent few who fled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Judas kisses that it heralded—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those all are dreamless who stood still to view</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The smile that stayed them for the stab that slew.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against his God his warfare now is o'er:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His bloodless heart (no colder than before)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No longer with a mute ambition swells</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To run a half-a-hundred little Hells.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With ever a polite, perfidious art—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dove in manner and a snake in heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This titmouse Machiavelli ne'er again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will feel the urge, the passion and the strain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To prove it true that one may smile and smile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And be a Chamberlain the blessed while.</span>
				</p>
				<p class="i1">
					<span>Sharp at both ends, his secret soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was like a double-headed mole</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Equipped with equal nose to prod</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This way or that beneath the sod.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Conjecture fitted to confound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If seen a moment out of ground—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its former, as its future, route</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The matter of a vain dispute.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save where a dunghill's lure supplied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its aid the riddle to decide.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When that occurred (his nearer nose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pointing the way with happier throes)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He sought it as a bee the rose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And as that robber daubs its thighs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With pollen till it cannot rise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So he, with glutted mind, remained</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inert, and Christ arose and reigned.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We raise the stone, we carve the solemn word,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sign of promise and the symbol grim;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His voice and vice are in the land unheard—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Yet all is doubtful that relates to him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No more he twirls his smile to work us woe;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We saw him put a fathom under sod:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Flung down at last—but so was Aaron's rod.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We <em>hope</em>he's dead, but only this we know:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He does not smile. O glory be to God!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="stephen-dorsey" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">Stephen Dorsey</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Fly, heedless stranger, from this spot accurst,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where rests in Satan an offender first</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In point of greatness, as in point of time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of new-school rascals who proclaim their crime.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Skilled with a frank loquacity to blab</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dark arcana of each mighty grab,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And famed for lying from his early youth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He sinned secure behind a veil of truth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some lock their lips upon their deeds; some write</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A damning record and conceal from sight;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some, with a lust of speaking, die to quell it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His way to keep a secret was to tell it.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mr-justice-field" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">Mr. Justice Field</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Here sleeps one of the greatest students</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">Of jurisprudence.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nature endowed him with the gift</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">Of the juristhrift.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All points of law alike he threw</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">The dice to settle.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those honest cubes were loaded true</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i6">With railway metal.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="general-b-f-butler" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">General B.F. Butler</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Thy flesh to earth, thy soul to God,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We gave, O gallant brother;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And o'er thy grave the awkward squad</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fired into one another!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="reparation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">Reparation</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Beneath this monument which rears its head.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A giant note of admiration—dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His life extinguished like a taper's flame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>John Ericsson is lying in his fame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behold how massive is the lofty shaft;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How fine the product of the sculptor's craft;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gold how lavishly applied; the great</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Man's statue how impressive and sedate!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Think what the cost-was! It would ill become</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our modesty to specify the sum;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Suffice it that a fair per cent, we're giving</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of what we robbed him of when he was living.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="disincorporated" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">Disincorporated</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Of Corporal Tanner the head and the trunk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are here in unconsecrate ground duly sunk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His legs in the South claim the patriot's tear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, stranger, you needn't be blubbering here.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-kit" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">A Kit</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Here Ingalls, sorrowing, has laid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tools of his infernal trade—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His pen and tongue. So sharp they grew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An such destruction from them flew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His hand was wounded when he wrote,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when he spoke he cut his throat.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="disjunctus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">Disjunctus</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Within this humble mausoleum</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Poor Guiteau's flesh you'll find.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His bones are kept in a museum,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Tillman has his mind.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-trencher-knight" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">A Trencher-Knight</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Stranger, uncover; here you have in view</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The monument of Chauncey M. Depew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eater and orator, the whole world round</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For feats of tongue and tooth alike renowned.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dining his way to eminence, he rowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With knife and fork up water-ways that flowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From lakes of favor—pulled with all his force</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And found each river sweeter than the source.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Like rats, obscure beneath a kitchen floor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gnawing and rising till obscure no more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He ate his way to eminence, and Fame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inscribes in gravy his immortal name.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A trencher-knight, he, mounted on his belly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So spurred his charger that its sides were jelly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grown desperate at last, it reared and threw him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Indigestion, overtaking, slew him.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-vice-president" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">A Vice-President</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Here the remains of Schuyler Colfax lie;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Born, all the world knows when, and God knows why.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In '71 he filled the public eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In '72 he bade the world good-bye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In God's good time, with a protesting sigh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He came to life just long enough to die.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-wasted-life" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">A Wasted Life</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Of Morgan here lies the unspirited clay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who secrets of Masonry swore to betray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He joined the great Order and studied with zeal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The awful arcana he meant to reveal.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At last in chagrin by his own hand he fell—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There was nothing to learn, there was nothing to tell.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Masons are said to have killed him. Not so—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even a secret so foul, they're compelled to forego.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="loring-pickering" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</h3>
						<h4 epub:type="title">Loring Pickering</h4>
					</hgroup>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>(After Pope)</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Here rests a writer, great but not immense,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Born destitute of feeling and of sense.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No power he but o'er his brain desired—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How not to suffer it to be inspired.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ideas unto him were all unknown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Proud of the words which, only, were his own.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So unreflecting, so confused his mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Torpid in error, indolently blind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A fever Heaven, to quicken him, applied,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, rather than revive, the sluggard died.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-water-pirate" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIV</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">A Water-Pirate</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Pause, stranger—whence you lightly tread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bill Carr's immoral part has fled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For him no heart of woman burned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But all the rivers' heads he turned.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alas! he now lifts up his eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In torment and for water cries,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Entreating that he may procure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One drop to cool his parched McClure!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="c-p-berry" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XV</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">C.P. Berry</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>Here's crowbait!—ravens, too, and daws</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flock hither to advance their caws,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, with a sudden courage armed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Devour the foe who once alarmed—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In life and death a fair deceit:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor strong to harm nor good to eat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>King bogey of the scarecrow host,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When known the least affrighting most,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though light his hand (his mind was dark)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He left on earth a straw Berry mark.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-rev-joseph-hemphill" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<hgroup>
					<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVI</h3>
					<h4 epub:type="title">The Rev. Joseph Hemphill</h4>
				</hgroup>
				<p>
					<span>He preached that sickness he could floor</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By prayer and by commanding;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When sick himself he sent for four</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Physicians in good standing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was struck dead despite their care,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For, fearing their dissension,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He secretly put up a prayer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thus drawing God's attention.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-17" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Jay Gould lies here. When he was newly dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He looked so natural that round his bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The people stood, in silence all, to weep.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They thought, poor souls! that he did only sleep.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-18" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Cynic perforce from studying mankind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the false volume of his single mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He damned his fellows for his own unworth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, bad himself, thought nothing good on earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet, still so judging and so erring still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Observing well, but understanding ill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His learning all was got by dint of sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And what he learned by day he lost by night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When hired to flatter he would never cease</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till those who'd paid for praises paid for peace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not wholly miser and but half a knave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He yearned to squander but he lived to save,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And did not, for he could not, cheat the grave.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i>Hic jacet</i> Pixley, scribe and muleteer:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Step lightly, stranger, anywhere but here.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-19" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>McAllister, of talents rich and rare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lies at this spot at finish of his race.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alike to him if it is here or there:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The one spot that he cared for was the ace.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-20" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Here lies Joseph Redding, who gave us the catfish.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He dined upon every fish except that fish.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twas touching to hear him expounding his fad</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a heart full of zeal and a mouth full of shad.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The catfish miaowed with unspeakable woe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Death, the lone fisherman, landed their Jo.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-21" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Judge Sawyer, whom in vain the people tried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To push from power, here is laid aside.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death only from the bench could ever start</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sluggish load of his immortal part.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-22" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>John Irish went, one luckless day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To loaf and fish at San Jose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He got no loaf, he got no fish:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They brained him with an empty dish!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They laid him in this place asleep—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O come, ye crocodiles, and weep.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-23" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In Sacramento City here</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This wooden monument we rear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In memory of Dr. May,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose smile even Death could not allay.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He's buried, Heaven alone knows where,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And only the hyenas care;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This May-pole merely marks the spot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where, ere the wretch began to rot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fame's trumpet, with its brazen bray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bawled; "Who (and why) was Dr. May?"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-24" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Dennis Spencer's mortal coil</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here is laid away to spoil—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Great riparian, who said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not a stream should leave its bed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now his soul would like a river</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Turned upon its parching liver.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-25" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>For those this mausoleum is erected</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who Stanford to the Upper House elected.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their luck is less or their promotion slower,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For, dead, they were elected to the Lower.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-26" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Beneath this stone lies Reuben Lloyd,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of breath deprived, of sense devoid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Templars' Captain-General, he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So formidable seemed to be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That had he not been on his back</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death ne'er had ventured to attack.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-27" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Here lies Greer Harrison, a well cracked louse—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So small a tenant of so big a house!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He joyed in fighting with his eyes (his fist</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prudently pendent from a peaceful wrist)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And loved to loll on the Parnassian mount,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His pen to suck and all his thumbs to count,—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What poetry he'd written but for lack</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of skill, when he had counted, to count back!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alas, no more he'll climb the sacred steep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To wake the lyre and put the world to sleep!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To his rapt lip his soul no longer springs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And like a jaybird from a knot-hole sings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No more the clubmen, pickled with his wine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spread wide their ears and hiccough "That's divine!"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The genius of his purse no longer draws</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pleasing thunders of a paid applause.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All silent now, nor sound nor sense remains,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though riddances of worms improve his brains.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All his no talents to the earth revert,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Fame concludes the record: "Dirt to dirt!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-28" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Here lies Barnes in all his glory—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Master he of oratOry.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When he died the people weeping,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(For they thought him only sleeping)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cried: "Although he now is quiet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his tongue is not a riot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soon, the spell that binds him breaking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He a motion will be making.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, alas, he'll rise and speak</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In support of it a week."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-29" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Rash mortal! stay thy feet and look around—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This vacant tomb as yet is holy ground;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But soon, alas! Jim Fair will occupy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These premises—then, holiness, good-bye!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-30" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Here Salomon's body reposes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bring roses, ye rebels, bring roses.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Set all of your drumsticks a-rolling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Discretion and Valor extrolling:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Discretion—he always retreated—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Valor—the dead he defeated.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brings roses, ye loyal, bring roses:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As patriot here he re-poses.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-31" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When Waterman ended his bright career</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He left his wet name to history here.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To carry it with him he did not care:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twould tantalize spirits of statesmen There.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-32" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Here lie the remains of Fred Emerson Brooks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A poet, as every one knew by his looks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who hadn't unluckily met with his books.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>On civic occasions he sprang to the fore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With poems consisting of stanzas three score.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The men whom they deafened enjoyed them the more.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Of reason his fantasy knew not the check:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All forms of inharmony came at his beck.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The weight of his ignorance fractured his neck.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In this peaceful spot, so the grave-diggers say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With pen, ink and paper they laid him away—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Poet-elect of the Judgment Day.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-33" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">George Perry here lies stiff and stark,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With stone at foot and stone at head.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His heart was dark, his mind was dark—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Ignorant ass!" the people said.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Not ignorant but skilled, alas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In all the secrets of his trade:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He knew more ways to be an ass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than any ass that ever brayed.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-34" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Here lies the last of Deacon Fitch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose business was to melt the pitch.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Convenient to this sacred spot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lies Sammy, who applied it, hot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis hard—so much alike they smell—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One's grave from t'other's grave to tell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But when his tomb the Deacon's burst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Of two he'll always be the first)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He'll see by studying the stones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he's obtained his proper bones,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, seeking Sammy's vault, unlock it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And put that person in his pocket.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-35" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Beneath this stone O'Donnell's tongue's at rest—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our noses by his spirit still addressed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Living or dead, he's equally Satanic—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His noise a terror and his smell a panic.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-36" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Hangman's hands laid in this tomb an</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Imp of Satan's getting, whom an</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ancient legend says that woman</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Never bore—he owed his birth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To Sin herself. From Hell to Earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She brought the brat in secret state</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And laid him at the Golden Gate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they named him Henry Vrooman.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">While with mortals here he stayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His father frequently he played.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Raised his birth-place and in other</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Playful ways begot his mother.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-37" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When Gabriel blows a dreadful blast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And swears that Time's forever past,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Days, weeks, months, years all one at last,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then Asa Fiske, laid here, distressed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will beat (and skin his hand) his breast:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There'll be no rate of interest!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-38" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Step lightly, stranger: here Jerome B. Cox</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is for the second time in a bad box.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He killed a man—the labor party rose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And showed him by its love how killing goes.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-39" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">When Vrooman here lay down to sleep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The other dead awoke to weep.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Since he no longer lives," they said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Small honor comes of being dead."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-40" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XL</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Here Porter Ashe is in the ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Green grows the grass upon his mound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This patron of the turf, I vow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ne'er served it half so well as now.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-41" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Like a cold fish escaping from its tank,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hence fled the soul of Joe Russel, crank.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He cried: "Cold water!" roaring like a beast.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Twas thrown upon him and the music ceased.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-42" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Here Estee rests. He shook a basket,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When, like a jewel from its casket,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fell Felton out. Said Estee, shouting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With mirth; "I've given you an outing."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then told him to go back. He wouldn't.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then tried to <i>put</i> him back. He couldn't.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So Estee died (his blood congealing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Felton's growing shadow) squealing.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-43" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Mourn here for one Bruner, called Elwood.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He doesn't—he never did—smell good</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To noses of critics and scholars.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If now he'd an office to sell could</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He sell it? O, no—where (in Hell) could</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He find a cool four hundred dollars?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-stone-44" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Here Stanford lies, who thought it odd</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he should go to meet his God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He looked, until his eyes grew dim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For God to hasten to meet him.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
		<section id="epigrams" epub:type="division">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Epigrams</h2>
			<article id="epigrams-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If every hypocrite in the United States were to break his leg to-day the country could be successfully invaded to-morrow by the warlike hypocrites of Canada.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To Dogmatism the Spirit of Inquiry is the same as the Spirit of Evil, and to pictures of the latter it appends a tail to represent the note of interrogation.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-3" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Immoral" is the judgment of the stalled ox on the gamboling lamb.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-4" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In forgiving an injury be somewhat ceremonious, lest your magnanimity be construed as indifference.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-5" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h3>
				<p>
					<span>True, man does not know woman. But neither does woman.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-6" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Age is provident because the less future we have the more we fear it.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-7" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Reason is fallible and virtue vincible; the winds vary and the needle forsakes the pole, but stupidity never errs and never intermits. Since it has been found that the axis of the earth wabbles, stupidity is indispensable as a standard of constancy.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-8" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In order that the list of able women may be memorized for use at meetings of the oppressed sex, Heaven has considerately made it brief.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-9" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Firmness is my persistency; obstinacy is yours.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-10" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A little heap of dust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A little streak of rust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A stone without a name—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo! hero, sword and fame.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-11" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Our vocabulary is defective; we give the same name to woman's lack of temptation and man's lack of opportunity.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-12" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"You scoundrel, you have wronged me," hissed the philosopher. "May you live forever!"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-13" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The man who thinks that a garnet can be made a ruby by setting it in brass is writing "dialect" for publication.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-14" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Who art thou, stranger, and what dost thou seek?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I am Generosity, and I seek a person named Gratitude."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Then thou dost not deserve to find her."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"True. I will go about my business and think of her no more. But who art thou, to be so wise?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I am Gratitude—farewell forever."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-15" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>There was never a genius who was not thought a fool until he disclosed himself; whereas he is a fool then only.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-16" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The boundaries that Napoleon drew have been effaced; the kingdoms that he set up have disappeared. But all the armies and statecraft of Europe cannot unsay what you have said.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-17" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Strive not for singularity in dress;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fools have the more and men of sense the less.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To look original is not worth while,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But be in mind a little out of style.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-18" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A conqueror arose from the dead. "Yesterday," he said, "I ruled half the world." "Please show me the half that you ruled," said an angel, pointing out a wisp of glowing vapor floating in space. "That is the world."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-19" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Who art thou, shivering in thy furs?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"My name is Avarice. What is thine?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Unselfishness."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Where is thy clothing, placid one?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Thou art wearing it."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-20" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To be comic is merely to be playful, but wit is a serious matter. To laugh at it is to confess that you do not understand.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-21" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If you would be accounted great by your contemporaries, be not too much greater than they.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-22" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To have something that he will not desire, nor know that he has—such is the hope of him who seeks the admiration of posterity. The character of his work does not matter; he is a humorist.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-23" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Women and foxes, being weak, are distinguished by superior tact.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-24" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To fatten pigs, confine and feed them; to fatten rogues, cultivate a generous disposition.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-25" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Every heart is the lair of a ferocious animal. The greatest wrong that you can put upon a man is to provoke him to let out his beast.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-26" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When two irreconcilable propositions are presented for assent the safest way is to thank Heaven that we are not as the unreasoning brutes, and believe both.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-27" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Truth is more deceptive than falsehood, for it is more frequently presented by those from whom we do not expect it, and so has against it a numerical presumption.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-28" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A bad marriage is like an electrical thrilling machine: it makes you dance, but you can't let go.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-29" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Meeting Merit on a street-crossing, Success stood still. Merit stepped off into the mud and went round him, bowing his apologies, which Success had the grace to accept.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-30" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"I think," says the philosopher divine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Therefore I am." Sir, here's a surer sign:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We know we live, for with our every breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We feel the fear and imminence of death.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-31" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The first man you meet is a fool. If you do not think so ask him and he will prove it.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-32" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>He who would rather inflict injustice than suffer it will always have his choice, for no injustice can be done to him.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-33" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>There are as many conceptions of a perfect happiness hereafter as there are minds that have marred their happiness here.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-34" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>We yearn to be, not what we are, but what we are not. If we were immortal we should not crave immortality.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-35" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A rabbit's foot may bring good luck to you, but it brought none to the rabbit.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-36" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Before praising the wisdom of the man who knows how to hold his tongue, ascertain if he knows how to hold his pen.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-37" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The most charming view in the world is obtained by introspection.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-38" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Love is unlike chess, in that the pieces are moved secretly and the player sees most of the game. But the looker-on has one incomparable advantage: he is not the stake.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-39" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXXIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It is not for nothing that tigers choose to hide in the jungle, for commerce and trade are carried on, mostly, in the open.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-40" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XL</h3>
				<p>
					<span>We say that we love, not whom we will, but whom we must. Our judgment need not, therefore, go to confession.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-41" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Of two kinds of temporary insanity, one ends in suicide, the other in marriage.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-42" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If you give alms from compassion, why require the beneficiary to be "a deserving object"? No other adversity is so sharp as destitution of merit.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-43" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Bereavement is the name that selfishness gives to a particular privation.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-44" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O proud philanthropist, your hope is vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To get by giving what you lost by gain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With every gift you do but swell the cloud</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of witnesses against you, swift and loud—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Accomplices who turn and swear you split</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your life: half robber and half hypocrite.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You're least unsafe when most intact you hold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your curst allotment of dishonest gold.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-45" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The highest and rarest form of contentment is approval of the success of another.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-46" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If Inclination challenge, stand and fight—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Opportunity the wise take flight.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-47" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What a woman most admires in a man is distinction among men. What a man most admires in a woman is devotion to himself.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-48" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Those who most loudly invite God's attention to themselves when in peril of death are those who should most fervently wish to escape his observation.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-49" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XLIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When you have made a catalogue of your friend's faults it is only fair to supply him with a duplicate, so that he may know yours.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-50" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">L</h3>
				<p>
					<span>How fascinating is Antiquity!—in what a golden haze the ancients lived their lives! We, too, are ancients. Of our enchanting time Posterity's great poets will sing immortal songs, and its archæologists will reverently uncover the foundations of our palaces and temples. Meantime we swap jack-knives.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-51" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Observe, my son, with how austere a virtue the man without a cent puts aside the temptation to manipulate the market or acquire a monopoly.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-52" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>For study of the good and the bad in woman two women are a needless expense.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-53" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"There's no free will," says the philosopher;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"To hang is most unjust."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"There is no free will," assents the officer;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">"We hang because we must."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-54" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Hope is an explorer who surveys the country ahead. That is why we know so much about the Hereafter and so little about the Heretofore.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-55" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Remembering that it was a woman who lost the world, we should accept the act of cackling geese in saving Rome as partial reparation.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-56" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>There are two classes of women who may do as they please; those who are rich and those who are poor. The former can count on assent, the latter on inattention.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-57" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When into the house of the heart Curiosity is admitted as the guest of Love she turns her host out of doors.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-58" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Happiness has not to all the same name: to Youth she is known as the Future; Age knows her as the Dream.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-59" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Who art thou, there in the mire?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Intuition. I leaped all the way from where thou standest in fear on the brink of the bog."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"A great feat, madam; accept the admiration of Reason, sometimes known as Dry-foot."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-60" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In eradicating an evil, it makes a difference whether it is uprooted or rooted up. The difference is in the reformer.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-61" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Audible Sisterhood rightly affirms the equality of the sexes: no man is so base but some woman is base enough to love him.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-62" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Having no eyes in the back of the head, we see ourselves on the verge of the outlook. Only he who has accomplished the notable feat of turning about knows himself the central figure in the universe.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-63" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Truth is so good a thing that falsehood can not afford to be without it.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-64" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If women did the writing of the world, instead of the talking, men would be regarded as the superior sex in beauty, grace and goodness.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-65" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Love is a delightful day's journey. At the farther end kiss your companion and say farewell.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-66" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Let him who would wish to duplicate his every experience prate of the value of life.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-67" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The game of discontent has its rules, and he who disregards them cheats. It is not permitted to you to wish to add another's advantages or possessions to your own; you are permitted only to wish to be another.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-68" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The creator and arbiter of beauty is the heart; to the male rattlesnake the female rattlesnake is the loveliest thing in nature.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-69" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Thought and emotion dwell apart. When the heart goes into the head there is no dissension; only an eviction.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-70" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If you want to read a perfect book there is only one way: write it.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-71" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Where goest thou, Ignorance?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"To fortify the mind of a maiden against a peril."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I am going thy way. My name is Knowledge."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Scoundrel! Thou art the peril."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-72" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A prude is one who blushes modestly at the indelicacy of her thoughts and virtuously flies from the temptation of her desires.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-73" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The man who is always taking you by the hand is the same who if you were hungry would take you by the café.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-74" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When a certain sovereign wanted war he threw out a diplomatic intimation; when ready, a diplomat.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-75" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If public opinion were determined by a throw of the dice, it would in the long run be half the time right.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-76" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The gambling known as business looks with austere disfavor upon the business known as gambling.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-77" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A virtuous widow is the most loyal of mortals; she is faithful to that which is neither pleased nor profited by her fidelity.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-78" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Of one who was "foolish" the creators of our language said that he was "fond." That we have not definitely reversed the meanings of the words should be set down to the credit of our courtesy.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-79" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Rioting gains its end by the power of numbers. To a believer in the wisdom and goodness of majorities it is not permitted to denounce a successful mob.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-80" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Artistically set to grace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wall of a dissecting-place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A human pericardium</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was fastened with a bit of gum,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While, simply underrunning it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The one word, "Charity," was writ</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To show the student band that hovered</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About it what it once had covered.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-81" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Virtue is not necessary to a good reputation, but a good reputation is helpful to virtue.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-82" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When lost in a forest go always down hill. When lost in a philosophy or doctrine go upward.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-83" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>We submit to the majority because we have to. But we are not compelled to call our attitude of subjection a posture of respect.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-84" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Pascal says that an inch added to the length of Cleopatra's nose would have changed the fortunes of the world. But having said this, he has said nothing, for all the forces of nature and all the power of dynasties could not have added an inch to the length of Cleopatra's nose.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-85" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Our luxuries are always masquerading as necessaries. Woman is the only necessary having the boldness and address to compel recognition as a luxury.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-86" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"I am the seat of the affections," said the heart.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Thank you," said the judgment, "you save my face."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-87" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Who art thou that weepest?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Man."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Nay, thou art Egotism. I am the Scheme of the Universe. Study me and learn that nothing matters."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Then how does it matter that I weep?"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-88" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A slight is less easily forgiven than an injury, because it implies something of contempt, indifference, an overlooking of our importance; whereas an injury presupposes some degree of consideration. "The black-guards!" said a traveler whom Sicilian brigands had released without ransom; "did they think me a person of no consequence?"</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-89" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">LXXXIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The people's plaudits are unheard in hell.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-90" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XC</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Generosity to a fallen foe is a virtue that takes no chances.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-91" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If there was a world before this we must all have died impenitent.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-92" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>We are what we laugh at. The stupid person is a poor joke, the clever, a good one.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-93" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If every man who resents being called a rogue resented being one this would be a world of wrath.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-94" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Force and charm are important elements of character, but it counts for little to be stronger than honey and sweeter than a lion.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-95" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Grief and discomfiture are coals that cool:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why keep them glowing with thy sighs, poor fool?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-96" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A popular author is one who writes what the people think. Genius invites them to think something else.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-97" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Asked to describe the Deity, a donkey would represent him with long ears and a tail. Man's conception is higher and truer: he thinks of him as somewhat resembling a man.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-98" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Christians and camels receive their burdens kneeling.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-99" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XCIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The sky is a concave mirror in which Man sees his own distorted image and seeks to propitiate it.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-100" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">C</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Honor thy father and thy mother that thy days may be long in the land, but do not hope that the life insurance companies will offer thee special rates.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-101" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Persons who are horrified by what they believe to be Darwin's theory of the descent of Man from the Ape may find comfort in the hope of his return.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-102" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A strong mind is more easily impressed than a weak: you shall not so readily convince a fool that you are a philosopher as a philosopher that you are a fool.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-103" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A cheap and easy cynicism rails at everything. The master of the art accomplishes the formidable task of discrimination.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-104" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When publicly censured our first instinct is to make everybody a codefendant.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-105" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O lady fine, fear not to lead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To Hymen's shrine a clown:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Love cannot level up, indeed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But he can level down.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-106" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Men are polygamous by nature and monogamous for opportunity. It is a faithful man who is willing to be watched by a half-dozen wives.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-107" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The virtues chose Modesty to be their queen.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I did not know that I was a virtue," she said. "Why did you not choose Innocence?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Because of her ignorance," they replied. "She knows nothing but that she is a virtue."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-108" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It is a wise "man's man" who knows what it is that he despises in a "ladies' man."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-109" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If the vices of women worshiped their creators men would boast of the adoration they inspire.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-110" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The only distinction that democracies reward is a high degree of conformity.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-111" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Slang is the speech of him who robs the literary garbage carts on their way to the dumps.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-112" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A woman died who had passed her life in affirming the superiority of her sex.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"At last," she said, "I shall have rest and honors."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Enter," said Saint Peter; "thou shalt wash the faces of the dear little cherubim."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-113" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To woman a general truth has neither value nor interest unless she can make a particular application of it. And we say that women are not practical!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-114" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The ignorant know not the depth of their ignorance, but the learned know the shallowness of their learning.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-115" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>He who relates his success in charming woman's heart may be assured of his failure to charm man's ear.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-116" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What poignant memories the shadows bring;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What songs of triumph in the dawning ring!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By night a coward and by day a king.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-117" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When among the graves of thy fellows, walk with circumspection; thine own is open at thy feet.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-118" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>As the physiognomist takes his own face as the highest type and standard, so the critic's theories are imposed by his own limitations.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-119" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Heaven lies about us in our infancy," and our neighbors take up the tale as we mature.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-120" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"My laws," she said, "are of myself a part:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I read them by examining my heart."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"True," he replied; "like those to Moses known,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thine also are engraven upon stone."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-121" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Love is a distracted attention: from contemplation of one's self one turns to consider one's dream.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-122" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Halt!—who goes there?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Death."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Advance, Death, and give the countersign."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"How needless! I care not to enter thy camp to-night. Thou shalt enter mine."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"What! I a deserter?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Nay, a great soldier. Thou shalt overcome all the enemies of mankind."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Who are they?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Life and the Fear of Death."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-123" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The palmist looks at the wrinkles made by closing the hand and says they signify character. The philosopher reads character by what the hand most loves to close upon.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-124" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, woe is his, with length of living cursed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who, nearing second childhood, had no first.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behind, no glimmer, and before no ray—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A night at either end of his dark day.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-125" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A noble enthusiasm in praise of Woman is not incompatible with a spirited zeal in defamation of women.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-126" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The money-getter who pleads his love of work has a lame defense, for love of work at money-getting is a lower taste than love of money.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-127" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>He who thinks that praise of mediocrity atones for disparagement of genius is like one who should plead robbery in excuse of theft.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-128" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The most disagreeable form of masculine hypocrisy is that which finds expression in pretended remorse for impossible gallantries.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-129" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Any one can say that which is new; any one that which is true. For that which is both new and true we must go duly accredited to the gods and await their pleasure.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-130" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The test of truth is Reason, not Faith; for to the court of Reason must be submitted even the claims of Faith.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-131" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXXI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Whither goest thou?" said the angel.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I know not."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"And whence hast thou come?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I know not."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"But who art thou?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I know not."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Then thou art Man. See that thou turn not back, but pass on to the place whence thou hast come."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-132" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXXII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If Expediency and Righteousness are not father and son they are the most harmonious brothers that ever were seen.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-133" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXXIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Train the head, and the heart will take care of itself; a rascal is one who knows not how to think.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-134" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXXIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Do you to others as you would</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That others do to you;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But see that you no service good</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would have from others that they could</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Not rightly do.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-135" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXXV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Taunts are allowable in the case of an obstinate husband: balky horses may best be made to go by having their ears bitten.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-136" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXXVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Adam probably regarded Eve as the woman of his choice, and exacted a certain gratitude for the distinction of his preference.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-137" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXXVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A man is the sum of his ancestors; to reform him you must begin with a dead ape and work downward through a million graves. He is like the lower end of a suspended chain; you can sway him slightly to the right or the left, but remove your hand and he falls into line with the other links.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-138" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXXVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>He who thinks with difficulty believes with alacrity. A fool is a natural proselyte, but he must be caught young, for his convictions, unlike those of the wise, harden with age.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-139" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXXXIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>These are the prerogatives of genius: To know without having learned; to draw just conclusions from unknown premises; to discern the soul of things.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-140" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXL</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Although one love a dozen times, yet will the latest love seem the first. He who says he has loved twice has not loved once.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-141" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXLI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Men who expect universal peace through invention of destructive weapons of war are no wiser than one who, noting the improvement of agricultural implements, should prophesy an end to the tilling of the soil.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-142" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXLII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To parents only, death brings an inconsolable sorrow. When the young die and the old live, nature's machinery is working with the friction that we name grief.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-143" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXLIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Empty wine-bottles have a bad opinion of women.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-144" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXLIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Civilization is the child of human ignorance and conceit. If Man knew his insignificance in the scheme of things he would not think it worth while to rise from barbarity to enlightenment. But it is only through enlightenment that he can know.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-145" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXLV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Along the road of life are many pleasure resorts, but think not that by tarrying in them you will take more days to the journey. The day of your arrival is already recorded.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-146" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXLVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The most offensive egotist is he that fears to say "I" and "me." "It will probably rain"—that is dogmatic. "I think it will rain"—that is natural and modest. Montaigne is the most delightful of essayists because so great is his humility that he does not think it important that we see not Montaigne. He so forgets himself that he employs no artifice to make us forget him.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-147" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXLVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>On fair foundations Theocrats unwise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rear superstructures that offend the skies.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"Behold," they cry, "this pile so fair and tall!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come dwell within it and be happy all."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But they alone inhabit it, and find,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poor fools, 'tis but a prison for the mind.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-148" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXLVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If thou wilt not laugh at a rich man's wit thou art an anarchist, and if thou take not his word thou shalt take nothing that he hath. Make haste, therefore, to be civil to thy betters, and so prosper, for prosperity is the foundation of the state.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-149" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXLIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Death is not the end; there remains the litigation over the estate.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-150" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CL</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When God makes a beautiful woman, the devil opens a new register.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-151" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When Eve first saw her reflection in a pool, she sought Adam and accused him of infidelity.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-152" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Why dost thou weep?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"For the death of my wife. Alas! I shall never again see her!"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Thy wife will never again see thee, yet she does not weep."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-153" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What theology is to religion and jurisprudence to justice, etiquette is to civility.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-154" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Who art thou that despite the piercing cold and thy robe's raggedness seemest to enjoy thyself?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Naught else is enjoyable—I am Contentment."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Ha! thine must be a magic shirt. Off with it! I shiver in my fine attire."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I have no shirt. Pass on, Success."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-155" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Ignorance when inevitable is excusable. It may be harmless, even beneficial; but it is charming only to the unwise. To affect a spurious ignorance is to disclose a genuine.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-156" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Because you will not take by theft what you can have by cheating, think not yours is the only conscience in the world. Even he who permits you to cheat his neighbor will shrink from permitting you to cheat himself.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-157" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"God keep thee, stranger; what is thy name?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Wisdom. And thine?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Knowledge. How does it happen that we meet?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"This is an intersection of our paths."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Will it ever be decreed that we travel always the same road?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"We were well named if we knew."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-158" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Nothing is more logical than persecution. Religious tolerance is a kind of infidelity.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-159" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Convictions are variable; to be always consistent is to be sometimes dishonest.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-160" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The philosopher's profoundest conviction is that which he is most reluctant to express, lest he mislead.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-161" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When exchange of identities is possible, be careful; you may choose a person who is willing.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-162" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The most intolerant advocate is he who is trying to convince himself.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-163" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In the Parliament of Otumwee the Chancellor of the Exchequer proposed a tax on fools.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"The right honorable and generous gentleman," said a member, "forgets that we already have it in the poll tax."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-164" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Whose dead body is that?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Credulity's."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"By whom was he slain?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Credulity."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Ah, suicide."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"No, surfeit. He dined at the table of Science, and swallowed all that was set before him."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-165" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Don't board with the devil if you wish to be fat.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-166" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Pray do not despise your delinquent debtor; his default is no proof of poverty.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-167" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Courage is the acceptance of the gambler's chance: a brave man bets against the game of the gods.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-168" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Who art thou?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"A philanthropist. And thou?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"A pauper."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Away! you have nothing to relieve my need."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-169" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Youth looks forward, for nothing is behind; Age backward, for nothing is before.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-170" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Think not, O man, the world has any need</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That thou canst truly serve by word or deed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Serve thou thy better self, nor care to know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How God makes righteousness and roses grow.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-171" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXXI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In spiritual matters material aids are not to be despised: by the use of an organ and a painted window an artistic emotion can be made to seem a religious ecstasy.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-172" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXXII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The poor man's price of admittance to the favor of the rich is his self-respect. It assures him a seat in the gallery.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-173" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXXIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>One may know oneself ugly, but there is no mirror for the understanding.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-174" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXXIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If the righteous thought death what they think they think it they would search less diligently for divine ordinances against suicide.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-175" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXXV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Weep not for cruelty to rogues in jail:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Injustice can the just alone assail.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deny compassion to the wretch who swerved,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till all who, fainting, walked aright are served.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-176" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXXVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The artless woman may be known by her costume: her gown is trimmed with feathers of the white blackbird.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-177" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXXVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>All are lunatics, but he who can analyze his delusion is called a philosopher.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-178" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXXVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Slang is a foul pool at which every dunce fills his bucket, and then sets up as a fountain.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-179" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXXIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The present is the frontier between the desert of the past and the garden of the future. It is redrawn every moment.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-180" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXXX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The virtue that is not automatic requires more attention than it is worth.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-181" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXXXI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>At sunset our shadows reach the stars, yet we are no greater at death than at the noon of life.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-182" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXXXII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Experience is a revelation in the light of which we renounce the errors of youth for those of age.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-183" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXXXIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>From childhood to youth is eternity; from youth to manhood, a season. Age comes in a night and is incredible.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-184" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXXXIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Avoid the disputatious. When you greet an acquaintance with "How are you?" and he replies: "On the contrary, how are <em>you</em>?" pass on.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-185" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXXXV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If all thought were audible none would be deemed discreditable. We know, indeed, that bad thoughts are universal, but that is not the same thing as catching them at being so.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-186" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXXXVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"All the souls in this place have been happy ever since you blundered into it," said Satan, ejecting Hope. "You make trouble wherever you go."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-187" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXXXVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Our severest retorts are unanswerable because nobody is present to answer them.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-188" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXXXVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The angels have good dreams and bad, and we are the dreams. When an angel wakes one of us dies.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-189" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CLXXXIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The man of "honor" pays his bet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By saving on his lawful debt.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When he to Nature pays his dust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Not for he would, but for he must)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men say, "He settled that, 'tis true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, faith, it long was overdue."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-190" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXC</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Do not permit a woman to ask forgiveness, for that is only the first step. The second is justification of herself by accusation of you.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-191" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXCI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If we knew nothing was behind us we should discern our true relation to the universe.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-192" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXCII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Youth has the sun and the stars by which to determine his position on the sea of life; Age must sail by dead reckoning and knows not whither he is bound.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-193" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXCIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Happiness is lost by criticising it; sorrow by accepting it.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-194" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXCIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>As Nature can not make us altogether wretched she resorts to the trick of contrast by making us sometimes almost happy.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-195" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXCV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When prosperous the fool trembles for the evil that is to come; in adversity the philosopher smiles for the good that he has had.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-196" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXCVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When God saw how faulty was man He tried again and made woman. As to why He then stopped there are two opinions. One of them is woman's.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-197" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXCVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>She hated him because he discovered that her lark was a crow. He hated her because she unlocked the cage of his beast.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-198" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXCVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Who art thou?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Friendship."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I am Love; let us travel together."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Yes—for a day's journey; then thou arrivest at thy grave."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"And thou?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I go as far as the grave of Advantage."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-199" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CXCIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Look far enough ahead and always thou shalt see the domes and spires of the City of Contentment.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-200" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CC</h3>
				<p>
					<span>You would say of that old man: "He is bald and bent." No; in the presence of Death he uncovers and bows.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-201" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If you saw Love pictured as clad in furs you would smile. Yet every year has its winter.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-202" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>You can not disprove the Great Pyramid by showing the impossibility of putting the stones in place.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-203" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Men were singing the praises of Justice.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Not so loud," said an angel; "if you wake her she will put you all to death."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-204" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Age, with his eyes in the back of his head, thinks it wisdom to see the bogs through which he has floundered.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-205" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Wisdom is known only by contrasting it with folly; by shadow only we perceive that all visible objects are not flat. Yet Philanthropos would abolish evil!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-206" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>One whose falsehoods no longer deceive has forfeited the right to speak truth.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-207" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Wisdom is a special knowledge in excess of all that is known.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-208" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To live is to believe. The most credulous of mortals is he who is persuaded of his incredulity.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-209" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In him who has never wronged another, revenge is a virtue.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-210" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>That you can not serve God and Mammon is a poor excuse for not serving God.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-211" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A fool's tongue is not so noisy but the wise can hear his ear commanding them to silence.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-212" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If the Valley of Peace could be reached only by the path of love, it would be sparsely inhabited.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-213" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To the eye of failure success is an accident with a presumption of crime.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-214" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Wearing his eyes in his heart, the optimist falls over his own feet, and calls it Progress.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-215" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>You can calculate your distance from Hell by the number of wayside roses. They are thickest at the hither end of the route.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-216" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The world was made a sphere in order that men should not push one another off, but the landowner smiles when he thinks of the sea.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-217" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Let not the night on thy resentment fall:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strike when the wrong is fresh, or not at all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lion ceases if his first leap fail—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>'Tis only dogs that nose a cooling trail.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-218" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Having given out all the virtues that He had made, God made another.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Give us that also," said His children.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Nay," He replied, "if I give you that you will slay one another till none is left. You shall have only its name, which is Justice."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"That is a good name," they said; "we will give it to a virtue of our own creation."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So they gave it to Revenge.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-219" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The sea-bird speeding from the realm of night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dashes to death against the beacon-light.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Learn from its evil fate, ambitious soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ministry of light is guide, not goal.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-220" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>While you have a future do not live too much in contemplation of your past: unless you are content to walk backward the mirror is a poor guide.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-221" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXXI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"O dreadful Death, why veilest thou thy face?"</span>
					<br/>
					<span>"To spare me thine impetuous embrace."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-222" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXXII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>He who knows himself great accepts the truth in reverent silence, but he who only believes himself great has embraced a noisy faith.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-223" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXXIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Life is a little plot of light. We enter, clasp a hand or two, and go our several ways back into the darkness. The mystery is infinitely pathetic and picturesque.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-224" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXXIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Cheerfulness is the religion of the little. The low hills are a-smirk with flowers and greenery; the dominating peaks, austere and desolate, holding a prophecy of doom.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-225" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXXV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It is not to our credit that women like best the men who are not as other men, nor to theirs that they are not particular as to the nature of the difference.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-226" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXXVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In the journey of life when thy shadow falls to the westward stop until it falls to the eastward. Thou art then at thy destination.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-227" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXXVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Seek not for happiness—'tis known</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hope and memory alone;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At dawn—how bright the noon will be!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At eve—how fair it glowed, ah, me!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-228" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXXVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Brain was given to test the heart's credibility as a witness, yet the philosopher's lady is almost as fine as the clown's wench.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-229" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXXIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Who art thou, so sorrowful?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Ingratitude. It saddens me to look upon the devastations of Benevolence."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Then veil thine eyes, for I am Benevolence."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Wretch! thou art my father and my mother."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-230" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXXX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Death is the only prosperity that we neither desire for ourselves nor resent in others.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-231" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXXXI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To the small part of ignorance that we can arrange and classify we give the name Knowledge.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-232" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXXXII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"I wish to enter," said the soul of the voluptuary.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I am told that all the beautiful women are here."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Enter," said Satan, and the soul of the voluptuary passed in.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"They make the place what it is," added Satan, as the gates clanged.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-233" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXXXIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Woman would be more charming if one could fall into her arms without falling into her hands.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-234" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXXXIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Think not to atone for wealth by apology: you must make restitution to the accuser.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-235" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXXXV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Before undergoing a surgical operation arrange your temporal affairs. You may live.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-236" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXXXVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Intolerance is natural and logical, for in every dissenting opinion lies an assumption of superior wisdom.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-237" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXXXVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Who art thou?" said Saint Peter at the Gate.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I am known as Memory."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"What presumption!—go back to Hell. And who, perspiring friend, art thou?"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"<em>My</em> name is Satan. I am looking for—"</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Take your penal apparatus and be off."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And Satan, laying hold of Memory, said: "Come along, you scoundrel! you make happiness wherever you are not."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-238" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXXXVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Women of genius commonly have masculine faces, figures and manners. In transplanting brains to an alien soil God leaves a little of the original earth clinging to the roots.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-239" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXXXIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The heels of Detection are sore from the toes of Remorse.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-240" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXL</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Twice we see Paradise. In youth we name it Life; in age, Youth.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-241" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXLI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>There are but ten Commandments, true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that's no hardship, friend, to you;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sins whereof no line is writ</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You're not commanded to commit.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-242" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXLII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Fear of the darkness is more than an inherited superstition—it is at night, mostly, that the king thinks.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-243" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXLIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Who art thou?" said Mercy.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Revenge, the father of Justice."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Thou wearest thy son's clothing."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"One must be clad."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Farewell—I go to attend thy son."</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"Thou wilt find him hiding in yonder jungle."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-244" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXLIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Self-denial is indulgence of a propensity to forego.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-245" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXLV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Men talk of selecting a wife; horses, of selecting an owner.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-246" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXLVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>You are not permitted to kill a woman who has wronged you, but nothing forbids you to reflect that she is growing older every minute. You are avenged fourteen hundred and forty times a day.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-247" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXLVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A sweetheart is a bottle of wine; a wife is a wine-bottle.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-248" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXLVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>He gets on best with women who best knows how to get on without them.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-249" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCXLIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>"Who am I?" asked an awakened soul.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"That is the only knowledge that is denied to you here," answered a smiling angel; "this is Heaven."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-250" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCL</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Woman's courage is ignorance of danger; man's is hope of escape.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-251" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCLI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When God had finished this terrestrial frame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all things else, with or without a name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Nothing that remained within His hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said: "Make me into something fine and grand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thine angels to amuse and entertain."</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God heard and made it into human brain.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-252" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCLII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If you wish to slay your enemy make haste, O make haste, for already Nature's knife is at his throat and yours.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-253" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCLIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To most persons a sense of obligation is insupportable; beware upon whom you inflict it.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-254" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCLIV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Bear me, good oceans, to some isle</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where I may never fear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The snake alurk in woman's smile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The tiger in her tear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet bear not with me her, O deeps,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who never smiles and never weeps.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-255" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCLV</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Life and Death threw dice for a child.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"I win!" cried Life.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>"True," said Death, "but you need a nimbler tongue to proclaim your luck. The stake is already dead of age."</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-256" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCLVI</h3>
				<p>
					<span>How blind is he who, powerless to discern</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The glories that about his pathway burn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Walks unaware the avenues of Dream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor sees the domes of Paradise agleam!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Golden Age, to him more nobly planned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy light lies ever upon sea and land.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From sordid scenes he lifts his eyes at will,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sees a Grecian god on every hill!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-257" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCLVII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In childhood we expect, in youth demand, in manhood hope, and in age beseech.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-258" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCLVIII</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A violet softly sighed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A hollyhock shouted above.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the heart of the violet, pride;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the heart of the hollyhock, love.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-259" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCLIX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If women knew themselves the fact that men do not know them would flatter them less and content them more.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="epigrams-260" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">CCLX</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The angel with a flaming sword slept at his post, and Eve slipped back into the Garden. "Thank Heaven! I am again in Paradise," said Adam.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
