<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Shapes of Clay</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="shapes-of-clay" epub:type="division">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Shapes of Clay</h2>
			<article id="the-passing-show" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Passing Show</h3>
				<section id="the-passing-show-1" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h4>
					<p>
						<span>I know not if it was a dream. I viewed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A city where the restless multitude,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Between the eastern and the western deep</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Had reared gigantic fabrics, strong and rude.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Colossal palaces crowned every height;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Towers from valleys climbed into the light;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">O’er dwellings at their feet, great golden domes</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hung in the blue, barbarically bright.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>But now, new-glimmering to-east, the day</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Touched the black masses with a grace of gray,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Dim spires of temples to the nation’s God</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Studding high spaces of the wide survey.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Well did the roofs their solemn secret keep</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of life and death stayed by the truce of sleep,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Yet whispered of an hour when sleepers wake,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The fool to hope afresh, the wise to weep.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The gardens greened upon the builded hills</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Above the tethered thunders of the mills</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">With sleeping wheels unstirred to service yet</span>
						<br/>
						<span>By the tamed torrents and the quickened rills.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>A hewn acclivity, reprieved a space,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Looked on the builder’s blocks about his base</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And bared his wounded breast in sign to say:</span>
						<br/>
						<span>“Strike! ’tis my destiny to lodge your race.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>“ ’Twas but a breath ago the mammoth browsed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Upon my slopes, and in my caves I housed</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Your shaggy fathers in their nakedness,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>While on their foeman’s offal they caroused.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Ships from afar afforested the bay.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Within their huge and chambered bodies lay</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">The wealth of continents; and merrily sailed</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The hardy argosies to far Cathay.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Beside the city of the living spread⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Strange fellowship!⁠—the city of the dead;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And much I wondered what its humble folk,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>To see how bravely they were housed, had said.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Noting how firm their habitations stood,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Broad-based and free of perishable wood⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">How deep in granite and how high in brass</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The names were wrought of eminent and good,</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>I said: “When gold or power is their aim,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The smile of beauty or the wage of shame,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Men dwell in cities; to this place they fare</span>
						<br/>
						<span>When they would conquer an abiding fame.”</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>From the red East the sun⁠—a solemn rite⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Crowned with a flame the cross upon a height</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Above the dead; and then with all his strength</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Struck the great city all aroar with light!</span>
					</p>
				</section>
				<section id="the-passing-show-2" epub:type="part">
					<h4 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h4>
					<p>
						<span>I know not if it was a dream. I came</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Unto a land where something seemed the same</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">That I had known as ’twere but yesterday,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>But what it was I could not rightly name.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>It was a strange and melancholy land.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Silent and desolate. On either hand</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Lay waters of a sea that seemed as dead,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And dead above it seemed the hills to stand.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>Grayed all with age, those lonely hills⁠—ah me,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>How worn and weary they appeared to be!</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Between their feet long dusty fissures clove</span>
						<br/>
						<span>The plain in aimless windings to the sea.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>One hill there was which, parted from the rest,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Stood where the eastern water curved a-west.</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Silent and passionless it stood. I thought</span>
						<br/>
						<span>I saw a scar upon its giant breast.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>The sun with sullen and portentous gleam</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Hung like a menace on the sea’s extreme;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">Nor the dead waters, nor the far, bleak bars</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Of cloud were conscious of his failing beam.</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>It was a dismal and a dreadful sight,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>That desert in its cold, uncanny light;</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">No soul but I alone to mark the fear</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And imminence of everlasting night!</span>
					</p>
					<p>
						<span>All presages and prophecies of doom</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Glimmered and babbled in the ghastly gloom,</span>
						<br/>
						<span class="i1">And in the midst of that accursèd scene</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A wolf sat howling on a broken tomb.</span>
					</p>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="elixir-vitae" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Elixir Vitӕ</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Of life’s elixir I had writ, when sleep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Pray Heaven it spared him who the writing read!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sealed upon my senses with so deep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A stupefaction that men thought me dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The centuries stole by with noiseless tread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like spectres in the twilight of my dream;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw mankind in dim procession sweep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through life, oblivion at each extreme.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Meanwhile my beard, like Barbarossa’s growing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Loaded my lap and o’er my knees was flowing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The generations came with dance and song,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And each observed me curiously there.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some asked: “Who was he?” Others in the throng</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Replied: “A wicked monk who slept at prayer.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some said I was a saint, and some a bear⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These all were women. So the young and gay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Visibly wrinkling as they fared along,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Doddered at last on failing limbs away;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though some, their footing in my beard entangled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fell into its abysses and were strangled.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>At last a generation came that walked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More slowly forward to the common tomb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then altogether stopped. The women talked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Excitedly; the men, with eyes agloom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Looked darkly on them with a look of doom;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And one cried out: “We are immortal now⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How need we these?” And a dread figure stalked,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Silent, with gleaming axe and shrouded brow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all men cried: “Decapitate the women,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or soon there’ll be no room to stand or swim in!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So (in my dream) each lovely head was chopped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From its fair shoulders, and but men alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were left in all the world. Birth being stopped,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enough of room remained in every zone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Peace ascended Woman’s vacant throne.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus, life’s elixir being found (the quacks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their bread-and-butter in it gladly sopped)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas made worth having by the headsman’s axe.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seeing which, I gave myself a hearty shaking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And crumbled all to powder in the waking.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="convalescent-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Convalescent</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What! “Out of danger?” Can the slighted Dame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or canting Pharisee no more defame?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will Treachery caress my hand no more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor Hatred lie alurk about my door?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ingratitude, with benefits dismissed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not close the loaded palm to make a fist?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will Envy henceforth not retaliate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For virtues it were vain to emulate?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will Ignorance my knowledge fail to scout,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not understanding what ’tis all about,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet feeling in its light so mean and small</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That all his little soul is turned to gall?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What! “Out of danger?” Jealousy disarmed?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Greed from exaction magically charmed?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ambition stayed from trampling whom it meets,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like horses fugitive in crowded streets?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Bigot, with his candle, book and bell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tongue-tied, unlunged and paralyzed as well?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Critic righteously to justice haled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His own ear to the post securely nailed⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What most he dreads unable to inflict,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And powerless to hawk the faults he’s picked?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The liar choked upon his choicest lie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And impotent alike to villify</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or flatter for the gold of thrifty men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who hate his person but employ his pen⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who love and loathe, respectively, the dirt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Belonging to his character and shirt?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What! “Out of danger?”⁠—Nature’s minions all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like hounds returning to the huntsman’s call,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Obedient to the unwelcome note</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That stays them from the quarry’s bursting throat?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Famine and Pestilence and Earthquake dire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Torrent and Tempest, Lightning, Frost and Fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soulless Tiger and the mindless Snake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The noxious Insect from the stagnant lake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These from their immemorial prey restrained,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their fury baffled and their power chained?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I’m safe? Is that what the physician said?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What! “Out of danger?” Then, by Heaven, I’m dead!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="at-the-close-of-the-canvass" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">At the Close of the Canvass</h3>
				<p>
					<span>’Twas a Venerable Person, whom I met one Sunday morning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All appareled as a prophet of a melancholy sect;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in a Jeremaid of objurgatory warning</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He lifted up his <i xml:lang="it">jodel</i> to the following effect:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O ye sanguinary statesmen, intermit your verbal tussles!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O ye editors and orators, consent to hear my lay!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rest a little while the digital and maxillary muscles</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And attend to what a Venerable Person has to say.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Cease your writing, cease your shouting, cease your wild unearthly lying;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Cease to bandy such expressions as are never, never found</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the letter of a lover; cease “exposing” and “replying”⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Let there be abated fury and a decrement of sound.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For to-morrow will be Monday and the fifth day of November⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Only day of opportunity before the final rush.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i xml:lang="la">Carpe diem!</i> go conciliate each person who’s a member</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the other party⁠—do it while you can without a blush.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Lo! the time is close upon you when the madness of the season</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Having howled itself to silence, like a Minnesota ’clone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will at last be superseded by the still, small voice of reason,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When the whelpage of your folly you would willingly disown.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Ah, ’tis mournful to consider what remorses will be thronging,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With a consciousness of having been so ghastly indiscreet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When by accident untoward two ex-gentlemen belonging</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the opposite political denominations meet!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Yes, ’tis melancholy, truly, to forecast the fierce, unruly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Supersurging of their blushes, like the flushes upon high</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Aurora Borealis lights her circumpolar palace</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And in customary manner sets her banner in the sky.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Each will think: ‘This falsifier knows that I too am a liar.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Curse him for a son of Satan, all unholily compound!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Curse my leader for another! Curse that pelican, my mother!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Would to God that I when little in my victual had been drowned!’ ”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then that venerable warner disappeared around a corner</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the season of unreason having also taken flight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the cheeks of men were burning like the skies to crimson turning</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When Aurora Borealis fires her premises by night.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="novum-organum" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Novum Organum</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In Bacon see the culminating prime</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Anglo-Saxon intellect and crime.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He dies and Nature, settling his affairs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Parts his endowments among us, his heirs:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To every one a pinch of brain for seed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, to develop it, a pinch of greed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each thrifty heir, to make the gift suffice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Buries the talent to manure the vice.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="geotheos" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Geotheos</h3>
				<p>
					<span>As sweet as the look of a lover</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Saluting the eyes of a maid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That blossom to blue as the maid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is ablush to the glances above her,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sunshine is gilding the glade</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And lifting the lark out of shade.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sing therefore high praises, and therefore</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sing songs that are ancient as gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Earth in her garments of gold;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor ask of their meaning, nor wherefore</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They charm as of yore, for behold!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Earth is as fair as of old.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sing songs of the pride of the mountains,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And songs of the strength of the seas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the fountains that fall to the seas</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the hands of the hills, and the fountains</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That shine in the temples of trees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In valleys of roses and bees.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sing songs that are dreamy and tender,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of slender Arabian palms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And shadows that circle the palms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where caravans, veiled from the splendor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are kneeling in blossoms and balms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In islands of infinite calms.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Barbaric, O Man, was thy runing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When mountains were stained as with wine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By the dawning of Time, and as wine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were the seas, yet its echoes are crooning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Achant in the gusty pine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the pulse of the poet’s line.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="politics" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Politics</h3>
				<p>
					<span>That land full surely hastens to its end</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where public sycophants in homage bend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The populace to flatter, and repeat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The doubled echoes of its loud conceit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lowly their attitude but high their aim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They creep to eminence through paths of shame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till fixed securely in the seats of pow’r,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dupes they flattered they at last devour.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-valley-of-dry-bones" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Valley of Dry Bones</h3>
				<p>
					<span>With crow bones all the land is white,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the gates of morn to the gates of night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Picked clean, they lie on the cumbered ground,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the politician’s paunch is round;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he strokes it down and across as he sings:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I’ve eaten my fill of the legs and wings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The neck, the back, the pontifical nose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Breast, belly and gizzard, for everything goes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The meat that’s dark (and there’s none that’s white)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exceeded the need of my appetite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I’ve bravely stuck to the needful work</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That a hungry domestic hog would shirk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve eaten the fowl that the Fates commend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To reluctant lips of the People’s Friend.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rank unspeakably, bitter as gall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is the bird, but I’ve eaten it, feathers and all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m a dutiful statesman, I am, although</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I really <em>don’t</em> like a diet of crow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I’ve dined all alone in a furtive way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But my platter I’ve cleaned every blessed day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They say that I bolt; so I do⁠—my bird;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They say that I sulk, but they’ve widely erred!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Lord! if my enemies only knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How I’m full to the throat with the corvic stew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They’d open their ears to hear me profess</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The faith compelled by the corvic stress,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(For, alas! necessity knows no law)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the heavenly caucus⁠—‘Caw! Caw! Caw!’ ”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And that ornithanthropical person tried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By flapping his arms on the air to ride;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I knew by the way that he clacked his bill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was just the poor, featherless biped, Dave Hill.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1896">1896</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="polyphemus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Polyphemus</h3>
				<p>
					<span>’Twas a sick young man with a face ungay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And an eye that was all alone;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he shook his head in a hopeless way</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As he sat on a roadside stone.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O, ailing youth, what untoward fate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Has made the sun to set</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On your mirth and eye?” “I’m constrained to state</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I’m an ex-West Point cadet.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“ ’Twas at cannon-practice I got my hurt</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And my present frame of mind;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the gun went off with a double spurt⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Before it, and also behind!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“How sad, how sad, that a fine young chap,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When studying how to kill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should meet with so terrible a mishap</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Precluding eventual skill.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Ah, woful to think that a weapon made</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For mowing down the foe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should commit so dreadful an escapade</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As to turn about to mow!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No more he heeded while I condoled:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He was wandering in his mind;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His lonely eye unconsidered rolled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And his views he thus defined:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“ ’Twas O for a breach of the peace⁠—’twas O</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For an international brawl!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But a piece of the breech⁠—ah no, ah no,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I didn’t want that at all.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-defense" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">In Defense</h3>
				<p>
					<span>You may say, if you please, Johnny Bull, that our girls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are crazy to marry your dukes and your earls;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I’ve heard that the maids of your own little isle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Greet bachelor lords with a favoring smile.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, titles, ’tis said in defense of our fair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are popular here because popular there;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And for them our ladies persistently go</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because ’tis exceedingly English, you know.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Whatever the motive, you’ll have to confess</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The effort’s attended with easy success;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And⁠—pardon the freedom⁠—’tis thought, over here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis mortification you mask with a sneer.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It’s all very well, sir, your scorn to parade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the high nasal twang of the Yankee maid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, ah, to my lord when he dares to propose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No sound is so sweet as that “Yes” from the nose.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, well, if the dukes and the earls and that lot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can stand it (God succor them if they can not!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your commoners ought to assent, I am sure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And what they’re not called on to suffer, endure.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“ ’Tis nothing but money?⁠—Your nobles are bought?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As to that, I submit, it is commonly thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That England’s a country not specially free</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Crœsi and (if you’ll allow it) Crœsӕ.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You’ve many a widow and many a girl</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With money to purchase a duke or an earl.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis a very remarkable thing, you’ll agree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When goods import buyers from over the sea.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Alas for the woman of Albion’s isle!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She may simper; as well as she can she may smile;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She may wear pantalettes and an air of repose⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But my lord of the future will talk through his nose.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="invocation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Invocation</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>Read at the Celebration of Independence in San Francisco, in 1888.</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Goddess of Liberty! O thou</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whose tearless eyes behold the chain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And look unmoved upon the slain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eternal peace upon thy brow⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Before thy shrine the races press,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thy perfect favor to implore⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The proudest tyrant asks no more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ironed anarchist no less.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thine altar-coals that touch the lips</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of prophets kindle, too, the brand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By Discord flung with wanton hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Among the houses and the ships.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Upon thy tranquil front the star</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Burns bleak and passionless and white,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Its cold inclemency of light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More dreadful than the shadows are.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thy name we do not here invoke</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our civic rites to sanctify:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Enthroned in thy remoter sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou heedest not our broken yoke.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thou carest not for such as we:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our millions die to serve the still</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And secret purpose of thy will.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They perish⁠—what is that to thee?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The light that fills the patriot’s tomb</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is not of thee. The shining crown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Compassionately offered down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To those who falter in the gloom,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And fall, and call upon thy name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And die desiring⁠—’tis the sign</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of a diviner love than thine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rewarding with a richer fame.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To him alone let freemen cry</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who hears alike the victor’s shout,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The song of faith, the moan of doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bends him from his nearer sky.</span>
				</p>
				<hr/>
				<p>
					<span>God of my country and my race!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So greater than the gods of old⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So fairer than the prophets told</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who dimly saw and feared thy face⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Who didst but half reveal thy will</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And gracious ends to their desire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Behind the dawn’s advancing fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy tender day-beam veiling still⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To whom the unceasing suns belong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And cause is one with consequence⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To whose divine, inclusive sense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The moan is blended with the song⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Whose laws, imperfect and unjust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thy just and perfect purpose serve:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The needle, howsoe’er it swerve,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still warranting the sailor’s trust⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>God, lift thy hand and make us free</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To crown the work thou hast designed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O, strike away the chains that bind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our souls to one idolatry!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The liberty thy love hath given</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We thank thee for. We thank thee for</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our great dead fathers’ holy war</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherein our manacles were riven.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We thank thee for the stronger stroke</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ourselves delivered and incurred</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When⁠—thine incitement half unheard⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The chains we riveted we broke.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We thank thee that beyond the sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The people, growing ever wise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Turn to the west their serious eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dumbly strive to be as we.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As when the sun’s returning flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Upon the Nileside statue shone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And struck from the enchanted stone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The music of a mighty fame,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let Man salute the rising day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Liberty, but not adore.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">’Tis Opportunity⁠—no more⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A useful, not a sacred, ray.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It bringeth good, it bringeth ill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As he possessing shall elect.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He maketh it of none effect</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who walketh not within thy will.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Give thou or more or less, as we</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shall serve the right or serve the wrong.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Confirm our freedom but so long</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As we are worthy to be free.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But when (O, distant be the time!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Majorities in passion draw</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Insurgent swords to murder Law,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the land is red with crime;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Or⁠—nearer menace!⁠—when the band</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of feeble spirits cringe and plead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the gigantic strength of Greed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fawn upon his iron hand;⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, when the steps to state are worn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In hollows by the feet of thieves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Mammon sits among the sheaves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And chuckles while the reapers mourn;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then stay thy miracle!⁠—replace</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The broken throne, repair the chain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Restore the interrupted reign</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And veil again thy patient face.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lo! here upon the world’s extreme</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We stand with lifted arms and dare</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By thine eternal name to swear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our country, which so fair we deem⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Upon whose hills, a bannered throng,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The spirits of the sun display</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Their flashing lances day by day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hear the sea’s pacific song⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Shall be so ruled in right and grace</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That men shall say: “O, drive afield</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The lawless eagle from the shield,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And call an angel to the place!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="religion" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Religion</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Hassan Bedreddin, clad in rags, ill-shod,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sought the great temple of the living God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The worshippers arose and drove him forth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And one in power beat him with a rod.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Allah,” he cried, “thou seest what I got:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy servants bar me from the sacred spot.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Be comforted,” the Holy One replied;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“It is the only place where I am not.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="two-socialists" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Two Socialists</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Brand Whitlock sped from Hell through space,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To be remanded never⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For having such a saintly face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Set free forever,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">With due apology. He came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To a world so base and bestial</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No tongue infernal spake its name⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No tongue celestial.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">So foul it was that even He</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had cast it off Who made it:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Adrift in space, as on a sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No mooring stayed it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">That orb unclean, denied the aid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of gravitation’s tether,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For centuries had blindly strayed⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lost altogether!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">The sun disdainfully declined</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To light the villain planet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the whole universe combined</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To curse and ban it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">The Thief Impenitent, his grim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Recusance unabated,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was its sole occupant: for him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was created.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For when the wretch was newly dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">’Twas thought Hell had not ample</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Restraints to check the local spread</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of his example,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nor apparatus that insured</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A proper pang; though lately</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The woes that he at first endured</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had softened greatly.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But still one fierce, vain longing he</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Suffered, nor could o’ercome it⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wish to sit in reverie</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On Calvary’s summit.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Beneath that orb’s unjoyous sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Brand Whitlock found the sinner.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Affinity!⁠—the outer eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lit by the inner.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Said Whitlock: “Here my stay is brief;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Take, brother, ere we sever,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy pardon. Be a better thief</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Henceforth forever.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“God gives me power to condone</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All scalawags’ offending,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the sweet faith that I have shown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In their amending.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When so he’d said with solemn grace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As was that good soul’s habit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Thief directly into space</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sprang like a rabbit!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>(He might have left at any time</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had freedom been his passion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For God had long forgot his crime.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Crime was the fashion.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Saint, resuming soon his flight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Met him through chaos floating.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Three stolen post-holes that poor wight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was gaily toting.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-morning-fancy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Morning Fancy</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I drifted (or I seemed to) in a boat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Upon the surface of a shoreless sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whereon no ship nor anything did float,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Save only the frail bark supporting me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And that⁠—it was so shadowy⁠—seemed to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Almost from out the subtle azure wrought</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the great ocean underneath its keel;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all that blue profound appeared as naught</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But thicker sky, translucent to reveal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Miles down, whatever through its spaces glided,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or at the bottom traveled or abided.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Great cities there I saw; of rich and poor</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The palace and the hovel; mountains, vales,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forest and field; the desert and the moor;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Tombs of the good and wise who’d lived in jails;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Seas of denser fluid, white with sails</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pushed at by currents moving here and there</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And sensible to sight above the flat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of that opaquer deep. Ah, strange and fair</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The nether world that I was gazing at</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With beating heart from that exalted level,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And⁠—lest I founder⁠—trembling like the devil!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The cities all were populous: men swarmed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In public places⁠—chattered, laughed and wept;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And savages their shining bodies warmed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At fires in primal woods. The wild beast leapt</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Upon its prey and slew it as it slept.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Armies went forth to battle on the plain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So far, far down in that unfathomed deep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The living seemed as silent as the slain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor even the widows could be heard to weep.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One might have thought their shaking was but laughter;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, truly, most were married shortly after.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Above the wreckage of that silent fray</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Strange fishes swam in circles, round and round⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Black, double-finned; and once a little way</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A bubble rose and burst without a sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And a man tumbled out upon the ground.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lord! ’twas an eerie thing to drift apace</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On that pellucid sea, beneath black skies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And o’er the heads of an undrowning race;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And when I woke I said⁠—to her surprise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who came with chocolate, for me to drink it:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“The atmosphere is deeper than you think it.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="visions-of-sin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Visions of Sin</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>
							<i>Kraslajorsk, Siberia</i>
						</p>
						<p>My eyes are better, and I shall travel slowly toward home.</p>
						<cite>—⁠Danenhower</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>From the regions of the Night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Coming with recovered sight⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the spell of darkness free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What will Danenhower see?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He will see when he arrives,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Doctors taking human lives.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He will see a learned judge</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose decision will not budge</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till both litigants are fleeced</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his palm is duly greased.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lawyers he will see who fight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Day by day and night by night;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never both upon a side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though their fees they still divide.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Preachers he will see who teach</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That it is divine to preach⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That they fan a sacred fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And are worthy of their hire.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He will see a trusted wife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pride of some good husband’s life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enter at a certain door</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And⁠—but he will see no more.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He will see Good Templars reel⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>See a prosecutor steal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a father beat his child.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’ll perhaps see Oscar Wilde.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From the regions of the Night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Coming with recovered sight⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the bliss of blindness free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That’s what Danenhower’ll see.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>1882.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="genius" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Genius</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What is the thing called Genius? One has said</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">’Tis general ability directed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into a special channel. One, instead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Proffers a definition much respected</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By toiling dullards: genius, he explains,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is infinite capacity for taking pains.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Max Nordau, seeing he has not the thing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Has solemnly decided, with Lombroso,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That genius is degeneracy. Ring</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The curtain down⁠—the show is only so-so;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’d rather see a dog-fight than sit out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This inconclusive definition-bout.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What, then, is genius? Faith, I’m only sure</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That I am deep in doubt about the matter;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But this I <em>think</em>: of two in literature</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He is the greater genius who’s the fatter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas in an age less prosperous that those</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were kings of thought who starved by verse and prose.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lo! the lean rhapsodist whose soul surveys,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ecstatic, his unprofitable vision,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Interprets it in cleanly speech; arrays</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His jeweled words with scholarly precision!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faith, he’s a dunce or he would never lack</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The means to wedge his belly from his back.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Twere passing easy to allay his pang</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had he the genius⁠—that’s to say, the insight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Commercial. If he would but sing in slang</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He’d earn the wherewithal to make his skin tight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Genius (let’s now define the word afresh)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is the capacity to take on flesh.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Spirit of Letters, hail! Thy reign is Now;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thy ministers are gentlemen that waddle⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Children of light and leading who avow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They swap, for tallow, speech that’s not a model⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For laminated kidney-suet trade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unsavory words. You must be stout, George Ade.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-town-of-dae" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">The Town of Dӕ</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>Swains and maidens, young and old,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>You to me this tale have told.</span>
						</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Where the squalid town of Dӕ</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Irks the comfortable sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spreading webs to gather fish,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As for wealth we set a wish,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dwelt a king by right divine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sprung from Adam’s royal line,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Town of Dӕ by the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Divers kinds of kings there be.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Name nor fame had Picklepip:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ne’er a soldier nor a ship</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bore his banners in the sun;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Naught knew he of kingly sport,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he held his royal court</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under an inverted tun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Love and roses, ages through,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Bloom where cot and trellis stand;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never yet these blossoms grew⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never yet was room for two⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In a cask upon the strand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So it happened, as it ought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That his simple schemes he wrought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the lagging summer’s day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a solitary way.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So it happened, as was best,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he took his nightly rest</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With no dreadful weight of woe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This way eyed and that way tressed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Featured thus, and thus, and so,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lying lead-like on a breast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By cares of state enough oppressed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet in dreams his fancy rude</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Claimed a lordly latitude.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Town of Dӕ by the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dreamers mate above their state</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And waken back to their degree.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Once to cask himself away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He prepared at close of day.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As he tugged with swelling throat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At a most unkingly coat⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not to get it off, but on,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the serving sun was gone⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Passed a silk-appareled sprite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Toward her castle on the height,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seized and set the garment right.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Turned the startled Picklepip⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Splendid crimson cheek and lip!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Turned again to sneak away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But she bade the villain stay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bade him thank her, which he did</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a speech that slipped and slid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sprawled and stumbled in its gait</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As a dancer tries to skate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Town of Dӕ by the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the face of silk and lace</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Rags too bold should never be.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lady Minnow cocked her head:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Mister Picklepip,” she said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Do you ever think to wed?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Town of Dӕ by the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No fair lady ever made a</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wicked speech like that to me!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Wretched little Picklepip</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said he hadn’t any ship,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Any flocks at his command,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor to feed them any land;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said he never in his life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Owned a mine to keep a wife.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the guilty stammer so</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That his meaning wouldn’t flow;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So he thought his aim to reach</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By some figurative speech:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said his Fate had been unkind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had pursued him from behind</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(How the mischief could it else?)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came upon him unaware,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Caught him all too roughly⁠—there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gushed the little lady’s glee</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like a gush of golden bells:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Picklepip, why, that is me!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Town of Dӕ by the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grammar’s for great scholars⁠—she</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Loved the summer and the lea.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Stupid little Picklepip</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Allowed the subtle hint to slip⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Maundered on about the ship</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he did not chance to own;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Told this grievance o’er and o’er,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Knowing that she knew before;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Told her how he dwelt alone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lady Minnow, for reply,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cut him off with “So do I!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But she reddened at the fib;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Servitors had she, <i xml:lang="la">ad <abbr>lib.</abbr></i></span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Town of Dӕ by the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In her youth who speaks no truth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ne’er shall young and honest be.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Witless little Picklepip</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Manned again his mental ship</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And veered her with a sudden shift.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Painted to the lady’s thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How he wrestled and he wrought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stoutly with the swimming drift</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By the kindly river brought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the mountain to the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fuel for the town of Dӕ.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tedious tale for lady’s ear:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From her castle on the height,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She had watched her water-knight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through the seasons of a year</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Challenge more than met his view</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And conquer better than he knew.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now she shook her pretty pate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stamped her foot⁠—’twas growing late:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Mister Picklepip, when I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drifting seaward pass you by;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the waves my forehead kiss</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And my tresses float above⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dead and drowned for lack of love⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’ll be sorry, sir, for this!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the silly creature cried⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Feared, perchance, the rising tide.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Town of Dӕ by the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Madam Adam, when she had ’em,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">May have been as bad as she.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span><i xml:lang="la">Fiat lux!</i> Love’s lumination</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fell in floods of revelation!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blinded brain by world aglare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sense of pulses in the air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sense of swooning and the beating</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a voice somewhere repeating</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Something indistinctly heard!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the soul of Picklepip</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sprang upon his trembling lip,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But he spake no further word</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the wealth he did not own;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In that moment had outgrown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ship and mine and flock and land⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even his cask upon the strand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dropped a stricken star to earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Type of wealth and worldly worth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clomb the moon into the sky,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Type of love’s immensity!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shaking silver seemed the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Throne of God the town of Dӕ!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Town of Dӕ by the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From above there cometh love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Blessing all good souls that be.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-anarchist" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Anarchist</h3>
				<p>
					<span>False to his art and to the high command</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God laid upon him, Demagogo’s hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beats all in vain the harp he thrilled before:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It yields a jingle and it yields no more.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No more the strings beneath his finger-tips</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing harmonies divine. No more his lips,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Touched with a living coal from sacred fires,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lead the sweet chorus of the golden wires.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The voice is raucous and the phrases squeak;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They labor, they complain, they sweat, they reek!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The more the wayward, disobedient song</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Errs from the right to advocate the wrong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More diligently still the singer strums,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To drown the horrid sound, with all his thumbs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gods, what a spectacle! The angels lean</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Out of high Heaven to view the sorry scene,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Israfel, “whose heart-strings are a lute,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though now compassion makes their music mute,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Among the weeping company appears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pearls in his eyes and cotton in his ears.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-offer-of-marriage" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Offer of Marriage</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Once I “dipt into the future far as human eye could see,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And saw⁠—it was not Sandow, nor John Sullivan, but she⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Emancipated Woman, who was weeping as she ran</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here and there for the discovery of Expurgated Man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the sun of Evolution ever rose and ever set,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that tardiest of mortals hadn’t evoluted yet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hence the tears that she cascaded, hence the sighs that tore apart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the tendinous connections of her indurated heart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cried Emancipated Woman, as she wearied of the search:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“In Advancing I have left myself distinctly in the lurch!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seeking still a worthy partner, from the land of brutes and dudes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have penetrated rashly into manless solitudes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now without a mate of any kind where am I?⁠—that’s to say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where shall I be to-morrow?⁠—where exert my rightful sway</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the purifying strength of my emancipated mind?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can solitude be lifted up, vacuity refined?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Calling, calling from the shadows in the rear of my Advance⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the Region of Unprogress in the Dark Domain of Chance⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Long I heard the Unevolvable beseeching my return</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To share the degradation he’s reluctant to unlearn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I’ve held my way regardless, evoluting year by year</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till I’m what you now behold me⁠—or would if you were here⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A condensed Emancipation and a Purifier proud</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An Independent Entity appropriately loud!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Independent? Yes, in spirit, but (O, woful, woful state!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Doomed to premature extinction by privation of a mate⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To extinction or reversion, for Unexpurgated Man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still awaits me in the backward if I sicken of the van.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O the horrible dilemma!⁠—to be odiously linked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With an Undeveloped Species, or become a Type Extinct!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As Emancipated Woman wailed her sorrow to the air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stalking out of desolation came a being strange and rare⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Plato’s Man!⁠—a biped, featherless from mandible to rump,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its wings two quilless flippers and its tail a plumeless stump.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>First it scratched and then it clucked, as if in hospitable terms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It invited her to banquet on imaginary worms.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then it strutted up before her with a lifting of the head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in accents of affection and of sympathy it said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“My estate is some’at ’umble, but I’m qualified to draw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Near the hymeneal altar and whack up my heart and claw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Emancipated Anything as walks upon the earth;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And them things is at your service for whatever they are worth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m sure to be congenial, marm, nor e’er deserve a scowl⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m Emancipated Rooster, I am Expurgated Fowl!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From the future and its wonders I withdrew my gaze, and then</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wrote this wild, unfestive lay of Evolutionated Hen.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="arma-virumque" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Arma Virumque</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“Ours is a Christian Army”; so he said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A regiment of bangomen who led.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“And ours a Christian Navy,” added he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who sailed a thunder-junk upon the sea.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Better they know than men unwarlike do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What is an army and a navy, too.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pray God there may be sent them by-and-by</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The knowledge what a Christian is, and why.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For somewhat lamely the conception runs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a brass-buttoned Jesus firing guns.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="on-a-proposed-crematory" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">On a Proposed Crematory</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When a fair bridge is builded o’er the gulf</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Between two cities, some ambitious fool,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hot for distinction, pleads for earliest leave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To push his clumsy feet upon the span,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That men in after years may single him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saying: “Behold the fool who first went o’er!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So be it when, as now the promise is,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Next summer sees the edifice complete</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which some do name a crematorium,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within the vantage of whose greater maw’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quicker digestion we shall cheat the worm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And circumvent the handed mole who loves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With tunnel, adit, drift and roomy stope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To mine our mortal parts in all their dips</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And spurs and angles. Let the fool stand forth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To link his name with this fair enterprise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As first decarcassed by the flame. And if</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With rival greedings for the fiery fame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They push in clamoring multitudes, or if</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With unaccustomed modesty they all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hold off, being something loth to qualify,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let me select the fittest for the rite.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By heaven! I’ll make so warrantable, wise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And excellent censure of their true deserts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And such a searching canvass of their claims,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That none shall bait the ballot. I’ll spread my choice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the main and general of those</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who, moved of holy impulse, pulpit-born,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Protested ’twere a sacrilege to burn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God’s gracious images, designed to rot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bellowed for the right of way for each</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Distempered carrion through the water pipes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With such a sturdy, boisterous exclaim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They did discharge themselves from their own throats</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against the splintered gates of audience</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twere wholesomer to take them in at mouth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than ear. These shall burn first: their ignible</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And seasoned substances⁠—trunks, legs and arms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blent indistinguishable in a mass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like winter-woven serpents in a pit⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>None vantaged of his fellow-fools in point</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of precedence, and all alive⁠—shall serve</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As fueling to fervor the retort</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For after cineration of true men.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-demand" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Demand</h3>
				<p>
					<span>You promised to paint me a picture,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Dear Mat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And I was to pay you in rhyme.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Although I am loth to inflict your</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Most easy of consciences, I’m</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of opinion that fibbing is awful,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And breaking a contract unlawful,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Indictable, too, as a crime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A slight and all that.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If, Lady Unbountiful, any</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of that</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By mortals called pity has part</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In your obdurate soul⁠—if a penny</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You care for the health of my heart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By performing your undertaking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’ll succor that organ from breaking⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And spare it for some new smart,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">As puss does a rat.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Do you think it is very becoming,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Dear Mat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To deny me my rights evermore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And⁠—bless you! if I begin summing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your sins they will make a long score!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You never were generous, madam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If you had been Eve and I Adam</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You’d have given me naught but the core,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And little of that.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Had I been content with a Titian,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A cat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By Landseer, a meadow by Claude,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No doubt I’d have had your permission</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To take it⁠—by purchase abroad.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But why should I sail o’er the ocean</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Landseers and Claudes? I’ve a notion</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All’s bad that the critics belaud.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I wanted a Mat.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Presumption’s a sin, and I suffer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">For that:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But still you <em>did</em> say that sometime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If I’d pay you enough (here’s enougher⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That’s more than enough) of rhyme</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’d paint me a picture. I pay you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hereby in advance; and I pray you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Condone, while you can, your crime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And send me a Mat.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But if you don’t do it I warn you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Dear Mat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I’ll raise such a clamor and cry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On Parnassus the Muses will scorn you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As mocker of poets and fly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With bitter complaints to Apollo:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Her spirit is proud, her heart hollow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Her beauty”⁠—they’ll hardly deny,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">On second thought, <em>that</em>!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-weather-wight" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Weather Wight</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The way was long, the hill was steep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My footing scarcely I could keep.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The night enshrouded me in gloom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I heard the ocean’s distant boom⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The trampling of the surges vast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was borne upon the rising blast.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“God help the mariner,” I cried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Whose ship to-morrow braves the tide!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then from the impenetrable dark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A solemn voice made this remark:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“For this locality⁠—warm, bright;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Barometer unchanged; breeze light.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Unseen consoler-man,” I cried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Whoe’er you are, where’er abide,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Thanks⁠—but my care is somewhat less</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Jack’s, than for my own, distress.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Could I but find a friendly roof,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Small odds what weather were aloof.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“For he whose comfort is secure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Another’s woes can well endure.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“The latch-string’s out,” the voice replied,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“And so’s the door⁠—jes’ step inside.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then through the darkness I discerned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A hovel, into which I turned.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Groping about beneath its thatch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I struck my head and then a match.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A candle by that gleam betrayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soon lent paraffinaceous aid.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A pallid, bald and thin old man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I saw, who this complaint began:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Through summer suns and winter snows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I sets observin’ of my toes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I rambles with increasin’ pain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The path of duty, but in vain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Rewards and honors pass me by⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No Congress hears this raven cry!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Filled with astonishment, I spoke:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Thou ancient raven, why this croak?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“With observation of your toes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What Congress has to do, Heaven knows!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“And swallow me if e’er I knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That one could sit and ramble too!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To answer me that ancient swain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Took up his parable again:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Through winter snows and summer suns</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A Weather Bureau here I runs.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I calls the turn, and can declare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jes’ when she’ll storm and when she’ll fair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Three times a day I sings out clear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The probs to all which wants to hear.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Some weather stations run with light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Frivolity is seldom right.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“A scientist from times remote,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Scienceville my birth is wrote.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“And when I h’ist the ‘rainy’ sign</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jes’ take your clo’es in off the line.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Not mine, O marvelous old man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The methods of your art to scan,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Yet here no instruments there be⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor ’ometer nor ’scope I see.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Did you (if questions you permit)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the asylum leave your kit?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That strange old man with motion rude</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grew to surprising altitude.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Tools (and sarcazzems too) I scorns⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I tells the weather by my corns.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“No doors and windows here you see⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wind and m’isture enters free.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“No fires nor lights, no wool nor fur</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here falsifies the tempercher.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“My corns unleathered I expose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To feel the rain’s foretellin’ throes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“No stockin’ from their ears keeps out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The comin’ tempest’s warnin’ shout.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Sich delicacy some has got</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They know next summer’s to be hot.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“This here one says (for that he’s best):</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Storm center passin’ to the west.’</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“This feller’s vitals is transfixed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With frost for Janawary sixt’.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“One chap jes’ now is occy’pied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In fig’rin on next Fridy’s tide.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I’ve shaved this cuss so thin and true</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’ll spot a fog in South Peru.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Sech are my tools, which ne’er a swell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Observatory can excel.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“By long a-studyin’ their throbs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I catches onto all the probs.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Much more, no doubt, he would have said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But suddenly he turned and fled;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For in mine eye’s indignant green</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lay storms that he had not foreseen,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Concerning which, as Fear appeals,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Speed, his toes had told his heels.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="t-a-h" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title se:name.person">
					<abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:personal-name">T. A. H.</abbr>
				</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Yes, he was that, or that, as you prefer⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did so and so, though, faith, it wasn’t all;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lived like a fool, or a philosopher.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And had whatever’s needful for a fall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As rough inflections on a planet merge</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the true bend of the gigantic sphere,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor mar the perfect circle of its verge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So in the survey of his worth the small</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Asperities of spirit disappear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lost in the grander curves of character.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He lately was hit hard: none knew but I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The strength and terror of that ghastly stroke⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not even herself. He uttered not a cry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But set his teeth and made a revelry;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drank like a devil⁠—staining sometimes red</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The goblet’s edge; diced with his conscience; spread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like Sisyphus, a feast for Death, and spoke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His welcome in a tongue so long forgot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That even his ancient guest remembered not</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What race had cursed him in it. Thus my friend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still conjugating with each failing sense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The verb “to die” in every mood and tense,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pursued his awful humor to the end.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When like a stormy dawn the crimson broke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From his white lips he smiled and mutely bled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, having meanly lived, is grandly dead.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="my-monument" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">My Monument</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It is pleasant to think, as I’m watching my ink</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A-drying along my paper,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That a monument fine will surely be mine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When death has extinguished my taper.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From each rhyming scribe of the journalist tribe</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Purged clean of all sentiments narrow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A pebble will mark his respect for the stark</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Stiff body that’s under the barrow.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>By fellow-bards thrown, thus stone upon stone</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Will make my celebrity deathless.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, I wish I could think, as I gaze at my ink,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They’d wait till my carcass is breathless.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mad" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Mad</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O ye who push and fight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To hear a wanton sing⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who utter the delight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That has the bogus ring⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O men mature in years,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In understanding young,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The membranes of whose ears</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She tickles with her tongue⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O wives and daughters sweet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who call it love of art</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To kiss a woman’s feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That crush a woman’s heart⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O prudent dams and sires,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your docile young who bring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see how man admires</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A sinner if she sing⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O husbands who impart</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To each assenting spouse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lesson that shall start</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The buds upon your brows⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All whose applauding hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Assist to rear the fame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That throws o’er all the lands</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The shadow of its shame⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Go drag her car!⁠—the mud</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Through which its axle rolls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is partly human blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And partly human souls.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Mad, mad!⁠—your senses whirl</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like devils dancing free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because a strolling girl</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Can hold the note high C.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For this the avenging rod</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Heaven ye dare defy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tear the law that God</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thundered from Sinai!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="for-coercion-of-colombia" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">For Coercion of Colombia</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“The ships steam south</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the harbor mouth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In warlike, grim array!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They load the seas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And on every breeze</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I hear the brass bands play</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As the squadrons steer away.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“From each foreign shore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They are coming o’er</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The oceans big and small,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With cheering crews</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And churning screws,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And guns and shot and all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Admirals that appal!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“In tropical seas</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They are thick as bees.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Oh, ne’er on the Trojan strand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was gathered a fleet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So hard to beat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As sails to that southern land.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">’Tis terribly, terribly grand!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O sailorman stout,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What’s it all about?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If you happen to know tell me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the foe has no chance</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His troops to advance</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the field we all agree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the devil a ship has he.’ ”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He shifted his quid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sailorman did.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the starboard side of his face.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His trousers he hitched</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As he rolled and pitched,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Maintaining his dubious place</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With a certain maritime grace.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He looked at the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a studious eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And this singular yarn he spun:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“When the wind’s sou’west</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every man’s possessed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of a devil!⁠—no son-of-a-gun</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Can tell what’s fit to be done.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Perhaps it was naught</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But a sailorman’s thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But I said to myself: “I’m blest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If I can’t mark down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man of renown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who is living in mental unrest</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where the wind is forever sou’west.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-teagoing-admiral" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Teagoing Admiral</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Once the Queen of Nether China</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(So benign a Messalina!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said: “I’ll make a Naval Hero</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without fear⁠—O brave as Nero!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He shall dominate the ocean</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By promotion, that’s my notion.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All my other sons of thunder</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then shall plunder vainly under</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This Incomparable Person,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Interspersin’ lively cursin’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With their futile strife to shiver</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every river-pirate’s liver,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to ascertain the measure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of his treasure at their leisure.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I’ll so arrange the looting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the shooting and the hooting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the making frightful faces</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(These grimaces are the bases</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of our tactics) that they never,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Howsoever brave and clever,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall have any kind of inning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the skinning now beginning.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I’ll see that in the story</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the gory game of glory</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The historian shall slight ’em</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or indict ’em⁠—maybe bite ’em.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the Hero of my making,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whom I’m aching to be waking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into visible existence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He shall distance these Philistines.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fame’s loud trumpet⁠—he shall hear it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blown with spirit in his ear, it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall extol his birth and breeding,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His exceeding knack at leading</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a sanguinary sea fight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or a tea fight, or a flea fight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till he burst with admiration</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of his station in the nation I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then while all the people mock him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll unfrock him! That will shock him.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus the Queen of Nether China,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Regina Mun-Kee-Shina,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made to Naval Evolution</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A Confucian contribution.</span>
					<br/>
					<footer>
						<p><time datetime="1898">1898</time>.</p>
					</footer>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-wooer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Wooer</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In Ballybazoo the young men woo</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the irresistible hob-nail shoe;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But in Ghargharoo lived a maiden who</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was pleased to remark that it wouldn’t do.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From Ghargharoo to Ballybazoo</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This sternly dissenting maiden (who,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Etc.) went to reside⁠—a lass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a cheek of steel and a brow of brass.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then all the young men of Ballybazoo</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Took turns in calling early to woo</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(With the irresistible hob-nail shoe)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The beautiful maiden from Ghargharoo.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As each fond lover with ardor threw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His heel in her upturned face there flew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A rain of sparks that consumed his eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Affecting his mind with a great surprise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When all the young men had renounced their sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The metal-faced maiden she sat upright,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remarking: “There’s nothing here to do⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dull, dull village is Ballybazoo.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From Ballybazoo to Ghargharoo</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cheek-whole maiden her armament drew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And her playmate lovers raised a hurroo</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That saddened the sightless in Ballybazoo.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A stranger there was who cherished a heel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of double-case-hardened, cold-rolled chrome steel!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And taking thought he decided to woo.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As ’twas his undoubted right to do.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To display his charms he removed his shoe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And boarding her visage, began to woo.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there in the gloaming, and not in vain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The old, old story was told again.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It was long ago in the sainted past,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But traits long latent crop out at last;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I know a live newspaper fellow who</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has ancestors buried in Ghargharoo.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="silhouettes-of-orientals" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Silhouettes of Orientals</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Sultan is a Muscleman;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He’s full of vim and whack,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And if you want a tussle man</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His back.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Because he’s a Mahometan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They think him mighty slow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’s quicker than a comet⁠—an</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Auto!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He doesn’t often waste a fit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But throws it where ’twill tell.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blood? Yes, he likes the taste of it</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Right well.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That angel, the Bulgarian,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is just a bird of pray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His soul’s as white as Parian,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They say.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His halo fits him pleasantly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he has two great wings.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He tunes his harp, and presently</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He sings:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“My shoulder inoffensively</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Bears this dear little chip.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pass on, wayfarer, pensively⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Don’t flip.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The thoughtful Moslem pins the chip</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fast with a dagger. Oh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That angel-person’s sins of lip</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are low!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Armenian is a sassy cur,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Cantankerous to boot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor draws the line at massacre</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And loot.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But when the Kurd in revelry</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Slays, burns, imprisons, fines,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That bad gent to the devil he</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Consigns.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My muse cannot exemplify</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Macedonian⁠—she</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Refuses to attempt to fly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So free.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Old Philip, King of Macedon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is many ages dead;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We have this little gassy don</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Instead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Is he a Unitarian,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A Moslem, Buddhist, Jew⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or just a gowned barbarian</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With trousers on his Mary Ann?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Don’t know⁠—do you?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="land-of-the-pilgrims-pride" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Land of the Pilgrim’s Pride</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I dreamed, and in my dream came one who said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Because thou art all sullen; and because</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou sayest thou hast not for thy country, love;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because thou dost begrudge the foolish blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That in the far heroic days thou didst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Or sayst thou didst) pour from thy riven vein</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In testimony to thy patriot zeal;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because thou seekest ever to promote</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Distrust of the benign and wholesome rule</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the Majority⁠—God’s Ministers;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because thou hearest in the People’s voice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Naught but the mandate of an idiot will</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clamoring in the wilderness, but what</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or why it knoweth not; because all this</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And much beside is true, I come”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Forbear,” I cried, “to name thine errand⁠—all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Too well I know it for the sword, the scales,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shrouded eyes (albeit methinks I catch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A twinkle now and then beneath the band)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Speak to my conscience of a traitor’s doom!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strike, then, but hear. To westward, roaring up</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From far beyond the earth’s vast curvature,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come sounds of discord horrible⁠—the jar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thunder of exploding bombs;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The crackle of the flames that eat away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The means of life of those who kindle them;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shouts and curses of the robber mob.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drunk with a sense of numbers⁠—like the wolves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Numerically brave⁠—on ravin bent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And murder! Hear the moans of honest men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With shameful by-name vilified, denied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The right to earn their bread, and with a blind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mad cruelty the devil would weep to see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beaten and tortured, even by the hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the barbarian’s female and his whelps!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Meanwhile the coward rulers of the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prate of ‘the People’s wrongs.’ The coward press</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Thrifty withal to purse a double gain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By two-faced flattery) prates like a fool</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the conservative and saving strength</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Anglo-Saxon institutions, or</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With magic words, as ‘freedom,’ and the like,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would conjure order from inharmony.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The land is foul with crime, and none declares</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our shame and downfall. Even the women rise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And seeing the rack and ruin men have wrought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strip their weak bodies with a silly zeal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Something to save from the chaotic wreck;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in the reek and sweat of their absurd</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And awkward efforts, lose even what remained⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their own morality and men’s respect.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Therefore I say to you;⁠—”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="right">“Nay say no more,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cried she who came into my dream, “for thou</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dost wander. What, pray, has all this to do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With what thou’rt charged with?⁠—that thou dost not love⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such as it is⁠—thy country?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="right">“Faith, I would,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But ’tis infested by my countrymen!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What she replied I know not, for a bomb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spitting and sputtering on my chamber floor.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Awoke me and I fled into the night.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-single-termer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Single Termer</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When Senator Foraker came to die</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His features lit up with a glow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he said: “I am going to dwell on high</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the Democrats down below.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I have kept the faith, I have fought the fight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the Trusts forever true.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With Elkins to lead, I have followed the light⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Saint Peter, it’s up to you.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Said Peter: “We strive to please in vain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Many a soul coming here</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Escapes to earth to be born again</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And resume the old career.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Here he opened the gate. “Although, no doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This fellow’s a son of sin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The devil himself can’t keep him out.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But I’ll lock the fine gentleman in.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-plague-of-asses" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Plague of Asses</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Alas, we’e fallen upon an evil time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our journals are all in a rash of rhyme.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slang, “dialect,” the humor of the slum.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Done into stanzas by the rule of thumb.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The peasant word, the coarse, colloquial phrase.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fitting the pauper thought that it conveys,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>March to the meter-master’s “hep, hep, hep,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With every second soldier out of step.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What sins of ours deserve this heavy curse?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who taught our clowns ’tis easy to write verse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If neither poetry nor wit be deemed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A needful ornament, nor sense esteemed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A twin of sound? O rustics of the quill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ill-made by Nature, making others ill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Landlubbers on the sea of song a-sail</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Uttering your fancies o’er the leeward rail)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forgive the wicked wish I cannot choose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But entertain⁠—that, luckless, you may lose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each one a thumb of the tormenting ten</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whereon you reckon syllables. Ah, then,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Restored to what it was before you learned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That grinning through horse-collars ever earned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Plaudits of rustics and enough of dollars</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To pay the weekly rental of the collars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With something over for the stomach’s throes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your ailing verse will turn to ailing prose.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then joyous angels will look down and say:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Behold! the ninety-nine that went astray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Return to where, from fields of noxious grass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweet thistles beckon each repenting ass.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-cuba" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">In Cuba</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Our Administration</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had made a new nation⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As new as a nation could be.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A raven was flapping</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above it and snapping</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His beak with a manifest glee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“O raven, what is it you see</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That causes the manifest glee?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“You can’t be designing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A programme of dining</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On anything living and free.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’re famous for dinners</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That plain-speaking sinners</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Condemn with the Terrible <i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">D</i>!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(The word is abhorrent to me</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That begins with the Terrible <i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">D</i>.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Come down from your airy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Position and tarry</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Awhile on this cocoanut tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tell me what joying</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You find in annoying</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A nation so young and so free⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Not dead in the slightest degree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But lively and healthy as we.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The raven, complying,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said, solemnly eying</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My edible parts from the tree:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“It isn’t to nations</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I look for my rations</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To any extent or degree.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They don’t fill the hollow in me</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To an appreciable degree.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Yet the seasons ensuing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will see something doing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To heighten my manifest glee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis soldiers that mostly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Appeal to my ghostly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Unusual appetite, see?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They’re easy digesting to me</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With my singular appetite, see?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then I hammered my forehead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To think of that horrid</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Old bird with his appetite free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A-sitting there, lacking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Compassion and cracking</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His beak, on a cocoanut tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As if merely saying to me:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Oh, what a fine cocoanut tree.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I said somewhat later:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Our Administrator</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Freedom’s estate, O see!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His Administration</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Presents us a ‘nation’</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That’s spelled with the Terrible <i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">D</i>!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And ‘nation’ is hateful to me</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When led by the Terrible <i epub:type="z3998:grapheme">D</i>.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="for-a-certain-critic" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">For a Certain Critic</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Let lowly themes engage my humble pen⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stupidities of critics, not of men.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be it mine once more the maunderings to trace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the expounders’ self-directed race⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their wire-drawn fancies, finically fine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of diligent vacuity the sign.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let them in jargon of their trade rehearse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The moral meaning of the random verse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That runs spontaneous from the poet’s pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be half-blotted by ambitious men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who hope with his their meaner names to link</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By writing o’er it in another ink</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The thoughts unreal which they think they think,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until the mental eye in vain inspects</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hateful palimpsest to find the text.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The lark ascending heavenward, loud and long</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sings to the dawning day his wanton song.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The moaning dove, attentive to the sound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its hidden meaning hastens to expound:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Explains its principles, design⁠—in brief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pronounces it a parable of grief!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bee, just pausing ere he daubs his thigh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With pollen from a hollyhock near by,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Declares he never heard in terms so just</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The labor problem thoughtfully discussed!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The browsing ass looks up and clears his whistle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To say: “A monologue upon the thistle!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Meanwhile the lark, descending, folds his wing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And innocently asks: “What!⁠—did I sing?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O literary parasites! who thrive</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the fame of better men, derive</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your sustenance by suction, like a leech,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, for you preach of them, think masters preach⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who find it half is profit, half delight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To write about what you could never write⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Consider, pray, how sharp had been the throes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of famine and discomfiture in those</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You write of if they had been critics, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And doomed to write of nothing but of you!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lo! where the gaping crowd throngs yonder tent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see the lion resolutely bent!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The prosing showman who the beast displays</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grows rich and richer daily in its praise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But how if, to attract the curious yeoman,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lion owned the show and showed the showman?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-summer-poet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To a Summer Poet</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Yes, the Summer girl is flirting on the beach,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With a him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the damboy is a-climbing for the peach,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On the limb;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yes, the bullfrog is a-croaking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the dudelet is a-smoking</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Cigarettes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the hackman is a-hacking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the showman is a-cracking</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Up his pets;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yes, the Jersey ’skeeter flits along the shore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the snapdog⁠—we have heard it o’er and o’er;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Yes, my poet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Well we know it⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Know the spooners how they spoon</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the bright</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dollar light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the country tavern moon;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Yes, the caterpillars fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From the trees (we know it all),</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with beetles all the shelves</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Are alive.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Please unbuttonhole us⁠—O,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Have the grace to let us go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For we know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How you Summer poets thrive,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By the recapitulation</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And insistent iteration</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the wondrous doings incident to Life Among Ourselves!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, I pray you stop the fervor and the fuss.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For you, poor human linnet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">There’s a half a living in it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But there’s not a copper cent in it for us!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="arthur-mcewen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title se:name.person.full-name">Arthur McEwen</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Posterity with all its eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will come and view him where he lies.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, turning from the scene away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a concerted shrug, will say:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“H’m, <i epub:type="se:name.publication.poem">Scarabaeus Sisyphus</i>⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What interest has that to us?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We can’t admire at all, at all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A tumble-bug without its ball.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then a sage will rise and say:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Good friends, you err⁠—turn back, I pray:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This freak that you unwisely shun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is bug and ball rolled into one.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="charles-and-peter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Charles and Peter</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Ere Gabriel’s note to silence died</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All graves of men were gaping wide.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then Charles <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A.</abbr> Dana, of <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">The Sun</i></span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rose slowly from the deepest one.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“The dead in Christ rise first, ’tis writ,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quoth he⁠—“ick, bick, ban, doe⁠—I’m It!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>(His headstone, footstone, counted slow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were “ick” and “bick,” he “ban” and “doe”:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Of beating Nick the subtle art</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was part of his immortal part.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then straight to Heaven he took his flight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arriving at the Gates of Light.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There Warden Peter, in the throes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of sleep, lay roaring in the nose.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Get up, you sluggard!” Dana cried⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I’ve an engagement there inside.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Saint arose and scratched his head.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I recollect your face,” he said.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“(And, pardon me, ’tis rather hard),</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But⁠—” Dana handed him a card.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Ah, yes, I now remember⁠—bless</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My soul, how dull I am I⁠—yes, yes,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“We’ve nothing better here than bliss.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Walk in. But I must tell you this:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“We’ve rest and comfort, though, and peace.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“H’m⁠—puddles,” Dana said, “for geese.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Have you in Heaven no Hell?” “Why, no,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said Peter, “nor, in truth, below.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“ ’Tis not included in our scheme⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis but a preacher’s idle dream.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The great man slowly moved away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I’ll call,” he said, “another day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“On earth I played it, o’er and o’er,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Heaven without it were a bore.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O, stuff!⁠—come in. You’ll make,” said Pete,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“A hell where’er you set your feet.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="contemplation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Contemplation</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I muse upon the distant town</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In many a dreamy mood.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above my head the sunbeams crown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The graveyard’s giant rood.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lupin blooms among the tombs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The quail recalls her brood.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, good it is to sit and trace</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The shadow of the cross;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It moves so still from place to place</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O’er marble, bronze and moss;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With graves to mark upon its arc</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our time’s eternal loss.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And sweet it is to watch the bee</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That revels in the roses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sense the fragrance floating free</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On every breeze that dozes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the mound, where, safe and sound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Mine enemy reposes.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-golden-age" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Golden Age</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Long ago the world was finer⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Why it failed I do not know:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the virtues were diviner;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Robber, miser, and maligner</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had not been created. No,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Truth and honor flourished, though.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Long ago.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sages in procession stalking</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Moved majestic to and fro,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And each lowly mortal walking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In their shadow stilled his talking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Heeding the sonorous flow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of their wisdom, loud or low,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Long ago.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Angel Woman, younger, fairer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Far than she that now we know,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gave men meeting with a rarer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grace. No graybeard cried, “Beware her</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Tongue and temper!” She was slow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To wrath. I tell you that was so,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Long ago.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, the miracle of morning.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Setting all the world aglow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a smile of light adorning</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God’s own face, held no forewarning</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the tempest that would blow⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sign and prophecy of woe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Long ago.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hope from every hilltop beckoned</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the happy throngs below;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they confidently reckoned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On a hero every second.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Best of all that goodly show,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I was but a laddie⁠—O,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">So long ago!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-prophet-of-peace" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Prophet of Peace</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“The world is young, perverse, and bad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The virtues all are wanting;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gods are dead and men are mad</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And wickedness is haunting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The human heart, an honored guest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As robbers of the night infest</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A wayside inn in Camilhad.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Hate walks the earth all unafraid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And neighbor murders neighbor;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Greed draws on Greed the battle-blade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Labor strangles Labor.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The widow and the orphan cry</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For bread while benefactors ply</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Unlashed by law, their dreadful trade.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“King, president, and patriot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Serve their accurst ambition;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soldier and the sans-culottes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The priest and politician,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are blowing with impested breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The coals of war that sparkle death.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Peace, righteousness, and love are not.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“But I shall live to see the day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whose golden dawn is breaking!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The reign of war no more shall lay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our dust, nor hearts be aching.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo! all mankind in brotherhood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall study only to be good,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And fling the sword of self away!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So chanted one inspired and fain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His message to deliver</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To men who toiled upon the plain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And bled along the river.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the world was foul with crime!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This prophet lived about the time</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That Lamech’s wife bare Tubal-cain.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-unreformable-reformer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Unreformable Reformer</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I know not how they come about⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">These alterations in our spelling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But sometimes am disposed to doubt</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The efficacy of compelling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(As still is done to one in school</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By threatening to whack or twist him)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Observance of an iron rule</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Despite one’s better private system.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For when the sinner’s freed from fear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He spells, as formerly, by ear.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That’s what I have observed, but much</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By that, I fear, is not decided</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against the iron hand (whose touch</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">May none experience, as I did)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For under this White House regime</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Condemning every silent letter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This is the motto, it would seem:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Who spells by ear spells all the better.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If that is what these pranks entail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Executive Compulsion, hail!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>God grant I know not envy nor.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When chatting over cup and saucer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Betray my secret hunger for</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The high renown of Geoffrey Chaucer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet now at last I seem to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My way to equal approbation:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When I’m as hard to read as he</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Phonetes of that far generation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will study me and say: “How grand!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So difficult to understand!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The President, the President!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How enterprising in revision</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Nature’s laws!⁠—how diligent</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In cutting out a court decision!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How sedulous the stars to woo</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And keep the seasons rightly going!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, seldom we remember who</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Establishes the time of sowing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And reaping, makes the harvest good,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a great man of Leonard Wood.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This world is variously bad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And mad as hares in January</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(’Tis later that the hares are mad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But similes and seasons vary)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Presidents have much to do</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To keep the March of Mind a-walking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To level up the birth rate, to</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pain William Chandler⁠—all by talking.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Father Adam, how you must</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rejoice that both your ears are dust!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-word-way-in-panama" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Word-Way in Panama</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I dreamed I sailed along a tropic shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Line behind me and the Star before.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A savage coast, it was, of wood and fen.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And monkeys gabbled there, instead of men.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once, as the blessed sun his head upraised,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On what a wondrous spectacle he gazed!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A mile away upon the starboard beam</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fell into ocean a deep sluggish stream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet not a drop of water passed its mouth⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy way, Kentucky, glory of the South!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Words, words alone it “uttered to the day,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if from Kansas it had gone astray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yea, disemboguing grandly on the beach,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flowed thickly, viscidly, the parts of speech!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some, by their dead, incalculable weight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Held to the bottom’ of that turbid strait,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slid seaward fathoms deep, nor saw the light</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That shone above their everlasting night!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some, such their levity, remained atop.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Frolicked and flashed⁠—did everything but stop.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Others, too grave to float, too light to sink.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forever rolled and tumbled on the brink⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spread north and south along the cumbered strand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And babbled ever between sea and land.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah! ’twas a famous spectacle indeed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This wordy welter!⁠—verbs that disagreed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With nominatives; prepositions all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Too weak to hold the objective case in thrall;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Adverbs and adjectives disparted quite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From parent-words and in a woful plight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of orphanage; conjunctions, interjections</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With truly anarchistic predilections;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pronouns which⁠—a gutter-blooded swarm!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Denied their antecedents in their form!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Greatly I marveled whence this language came⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No “well of English” like it could I name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor think how such a stream, however free</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its flow, could wear a channel to the seal</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As Hudson bears his never-failing fleet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of dead dogs, verdant, poddy and unsweet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To pile themselves upon the Jersey shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or in Sargasso*s Sea rest evermore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So poured this torrent through its delta’s breaches.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all these parts of speech were parts of speeches!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All gushing from that word-way like a flood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of swearing tomcats militant in mud!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They leapt, they smelled, they clamored, like a line</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of pagans faring to a sacred shrine!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“No more my heart the dismal din sustained”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(See Homer⁠—Pope’s translation) for it strained</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My senses⁠—this uncouth, in fragrant, hoarse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Fine flow of language” from its Northern source.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cold drops of terror from my body broke!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I ’bouted ship, and from my dream awoke.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1902">1902</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="the-jack-of-clubs" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Jack of Clubs</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Jerome, you are a mighty famous man⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">District Attorney, I believe they call you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some shout your praise as loudly as they can,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And some, apparently, just live to maul you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But whether good or ill repute befall you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your critics can’t deny that, as a rule,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You take it standing⁠—though the wits among</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Them say you stand, as does the singing mule.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The better to perform your feats of lung.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, truly from the dawning to the gloaming.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When in good voice, you’re usually Jeroming.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O, well, we must have music⁠—’tis a need.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like Ibsen, Shaw or the “Edenic diet”;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though sometimes silence is desired⁠—indeed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">There’s much that may be said in praise of quiet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And possibly you might do worse than try it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twere better, anyhow, than fool advice</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the police to club their fellow men.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Too sore already. Sir, it is not nice</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To free your snouty virtues from the pen⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unless, as once in Gadara, they’ll scamper</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down a steep place to where ’tis greatly damper.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Jerome, the best of us are those who care</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To hide from view the monsters that inhabit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our hearts, and when too closely questioned swear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We’ve nothing fiercer than a sheep or rabbit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Seeing an opportunity, you grab it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lifting up the curtain, show the whole</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Menagerie of thoughts and feelings which</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Infest the secret places of your soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like newts and water-puppies in a ditch.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, great reformer! hide from observation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The unpleasing spectacle of Reformation.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1905">1905</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="a-naval-method" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Naval Method</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Captain Purvis, for aught we know,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Never slew a Filipino;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Played exceeding well at polo,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But invited not the bolo.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though his form was big and burly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his fist was hard and knurly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his cocktail hour came early,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet he was devoid of thirst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the blood of the accurst.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inconsiderate Tagallo</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Seas of gore, however shallow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He regarded very lightly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As inutile and unsightly);</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So he did not much frequent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That insurrectionary gent.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Captain Purvis went a-scouting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Truth to tell, he took an outing)⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Found a Filipino sleeping,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bound and took him into keeping.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Calling Sergeant-Major Gump,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They conveyed him to a pump.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Laid him on his back beneath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With his tongue between his teeth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said the captain: “We’ll not thump him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But he is a spy⁠—we’ll pump him.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That’s our duty; information,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Secrets useful to the nation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We’ll wring from him. Tell me, sir,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tell me truly, why a cur</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wags its tail⁠—and, furthermore.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When a door Is not a door.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But that person obstlnaclous</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Answered, with a look ungracious,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he’d see them (he was witty)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Both in Helfurst⁠—that’s a city</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Silesia, I suppose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where no proper person goes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So they pumped him full of water⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Son of Temperance, or Daughter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ne’er was half so full as that,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor any poison-fevered rat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Trying with a fervor frantic</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To abolish the Atlantic.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yes, that Filipino bloated</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till his snov^ry liver floated</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a lily on a pond.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his soul to the Beyond</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drifted on the strong, full tide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“By word of mouth,” from his inside.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Captain Purvis being duly</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tried, the President said: “Truly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’s a water-warrior; he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would more fitly serve at sea.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So the Navy broke his fall⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rearest-Admiral of all!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By his ironclad desk he’s sitting.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sometimes writing, sometimes knitting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For he’s Chief (and that’s enough)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the Bureau of Plum Duff.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1902">1902</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="another-aspirant" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Another Aspirant</h3>
				<p>
					<span>George Dewey, dear, I did not think that you⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So very married and so happy, too⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would go philandering with another girl</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And give your gay mustache a fetching curl</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And set your cap⁠—I should say your cocked hat⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At Miss Columbia the like o’ that.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pray what can you expect to get by throwing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sheep’s eyes at one so very, very knowing?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>See how she served McKinley! All his life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He wooed her for his morganatic wife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swore that he loved her better than his soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(I’m half inclined to think, upon the whole,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She better did deserve his love) then vowed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’d marry her alive, or even aloud!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What did she? Ere his breath he could recover</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She heartlessly accepted that poor lover!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There’s William Bryan of the silver tongue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old in ambition, in discretion young⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He courts her with the song, the dance, the lute,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But knows how suitors feel who do not suit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Teddy Roosevelt, plucking from its sheath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The weapon that he wears behind his teeth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Endeavors in his simple, soldier fashion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But all in vain, to touch her heart by slashin’.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Beware, my web-foot friend, beware her wiles:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fly from her sighs and disregard her smiles.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She’s no fool mermaid with a comb and glass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But Satan’s daughter with a breast of brass.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Put out your prow to sea again⁠—^but hold!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If Bryan and McKinley, all too bold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Show up along the beach with little Teddy⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, Dewey, you may fire when you are ready.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1900-04">April, 1900</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="a-learner" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Learner</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I do not think you rightly understand:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My foolish tongue imperfectly has caught</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The trick of loving words, nor, as it ought.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Serves the sweet purpose of the heart’s command.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear, I’m untraveled in the golden land</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of love, and in its language all untaught,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like some poor mariner by tempest brought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Mongst alien races to a foreign strand.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, pretty native, bear with me until</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My simple wants I rightly can avow⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My will to serve you with my men and ships.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For lo! already I’ve some little skill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the strange tongue. Ask me to kiss you now⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I’ll read the riddle ere it leaves your lips!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-bridget" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To Bridget</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Have ye heard what the news is, me darlint?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Fenians have threatened the Pope!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, begorra, I think there’s a snarl in’t</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That’s twisted it up like a rope.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From a kink in the telescope.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the news, ye must know, Biddy, reaches</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This counthry by means of a wire;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sometimes the heat o’ the speeches</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Just warrups it up like a fire.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faith! who but the Divil would bother</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The likes o’ the Howly Father?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And the Divil is in it, I’m fearin’,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When a gintleman’s called on to chuse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Betwixt Howly Church and Ould Erin⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The shamrock and harp to refuse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or be like the murtherin’ Jews.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Och! Biddy, me mind it is troublin’</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To know where me body’s at home⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With half o’ me sowl there in Dublin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And t’other half over In Rome!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bedad, there’s a shplit in the party</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the name of O’Malley McCarty!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="after-tennyson" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">After Tennyson</h3>
				<p>
					<span>You ask me why, though ill at ease,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Within this region I subsist,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where honor’s dead, and law is hissed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all men pillage as they please.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It is the land where freemen kill</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In warm debate their party foes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The land where judges come to blows</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And speak the things that make us ill;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A land of base expedient;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A land where gold can justice drown;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where Freedom’s chains are handed down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From President to President;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where factions wrangle for the bread</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of honest men; where, fearing naught,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Accurst monopolies have caught</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The people in the nets they spread;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where branded convicts execute</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The laws that in a better time</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They broke, and every kind of crime</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stalks unashamed and resolute.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Should honor e’er possess the land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And patriots control the State,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Justice rise, divine with hate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To choke the politician band,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O waft me from the harbor forth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wild winds. I’ll see Alaska’s sky.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Here ’twill have grown too warm, and I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will run for office in the North.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-my-bird" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To My Bird</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If I were screaming in a cage.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Parrot mine, parrot mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you were rhyming on this page,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Parrot mine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’d try to shriek a fresher bit</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of wisdom to excite your wit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Parrot mine.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All you have said is nothing new,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Parrot mine, parrot mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By Jove, I taught it all to you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Parrot mine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While you nor can, nor could, nor might</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have thought what I could care to write,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Parrot mine.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your life in order to maintain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Parrot mine, parrot mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You daily dine upon my brain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Parrot mine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My mind, a torn and mangled wreck.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is disappearing down your neck.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Parrot mine.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Well, be it so: present your bill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Parrot mine, parrot mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And on my virtues feast your fill.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Parrot mine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My vices, though, will disagree</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With you, my pet. They do with me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Parrot mine.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="business" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Business</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Two villains of the highest rank</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Set out one night to rob a bank.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They found the building, looked it o’er,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each window noted, tried each door,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scanned carefully the lidded hole</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For minstrels to cascade the coal⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In short, examined five-and-twenty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Short cuts from poverty to plenty.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But all were sealed, they saw full soon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against the minions of the moon.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Enough,” said one: “I’m satisfied.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The other, smiling fair and wide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said: “I’m as highly pleased as you:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No burglar ever can get through.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fate surely prospers our design⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The booty all is yours and mine.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, full of hope, the following day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the exchange they took their way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bought, with manner free and frank,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some stock of that devoted bank;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they became, inside the year,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One President and one Cashier.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their crime I can no further trace⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The means of safety to embrace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I overdrew and left the place.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-possibility" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Possibility</h3>
				<p>
					<span>If the wicked gods were willing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(Pray it never may be true!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That a universal chilling</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Should ensue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the sentiment of loving⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If they made a great undoing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the plan of turtle-doving,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Then farewell all poet-lore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Evermore.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If there were no more of billing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">There would be no more of cooing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we all should be but owls⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Lonely fowls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blinking wonderfully wise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With our great round eyes⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sitting singly in the gloaming and no longer two and two,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As unwilling to be wedded as unpracticed how to woo;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With regard to being mated,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Asking still with aggravated</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ungrammatical acerbity: “To who? To who?”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-censor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">To a Censor</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>“The delay granted by the weakness and good nature of our judges is responsible for half the murders.”</p>
						<cite>—⁠Daily Newspaper</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Delay responsible? Why, then; my friend,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Impeach Delay and you will make an end.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thrust vile Delay in jail and let it rot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For doing all the things that it should not.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Put not good-natured judges under bond,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But make Delay in damages respond.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Minos, Ӕacus, Rhadamanthus, rolled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into one pitiless, unsmiling scold⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unsparing censor, be your thongs uncurled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To “lash the rascals naked through the world.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rascals? Nay, Rascality’s the thing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above whose back your knotted scourges sing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>Your</em> satire, truly, like a razor keen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Wounds with a touch that’s neither felt nor seen;”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For naught that you assail with falchion free</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has either nerves to feel or eyes to see.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against abstractions evermore you charge</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You hack no helmet and you need no targe.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That wickedness is wrong and sin a vice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That wrong’s not right and foulness never nice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fearless affirm. All consequences dare:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Smite the offense and the offender spare.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Ananias and Sapphira lied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Falsehood, had you been there, had surely died.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When money-changers in the Temple sat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At money-changing you’d have whirled the “cat”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(That John-the-Baptist of the modern pen)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the brokers would have cried amen!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Good friend, if any judge deserve your blame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have you no courage, or has he no name?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon his method will you wreak your wrath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Himself all unmolested in his path?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fall to! fall to!⁠—your club no longer draw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To beat the air or flail a man of straw.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scorn to do justice like the Saxon thrall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who cuffed the offender’s shadow on a wall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let rascals in the flesh attest your zeal⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knocked on the mazzard or tripped up at heel!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We know that judges are corrupt. We know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That crimes are lively and that laws are slow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We know that lawyers lie and doctors slay;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That priests and preachers are but birds of pray;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That merchants cheat and journalists for gold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flatter the vicious while at vice they scold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis all familiar as the simple lore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That two policemen and two thieves make four.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But since, while some are wicked, some are good,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(As trees may differ though they all are wood)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Names, here and there, to show whose head is hit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bad would sentence and the good acquit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In sparing everybody none you spare:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rebukes most personal are least unfair.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fire at random if you still prefer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And swear at Dog but never kick a cur,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Permit me yet one ultimate appeal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To something that you understand and feel:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let thrift and vanity your heart persuade⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You might be read if you would learn your trade.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Good brother cynics (you have doubtless guessed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not one of you but all are here addressed)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remember this: the shaft that seeks a heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Draws all eyes after it; an idle dart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shot at some shadow flutters o’er the green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its flight unheeded and its fall unseen.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-whole-world-kin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">“The Whole World Kin”</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“Liars for witnesses; for lawyers brutes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Willing to lose their souls to win their suits;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cowards for jurors, and for judge a clown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who ne’er took up the law, yet lays it down;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Justice denied, authority abused,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the one blameless person the accused⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy courts, my country, all these dreadful years,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Move fools to laughter and the wise to tears.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So moaned an alien from beyond the foam.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come here, my lad, I think you’ll feel at home.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-future-conversation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">A Future Conversation</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>If the coal strike is not settled satisfactorily I shall lead the wives of the miners in a march on Washington.</p>
						<cite>—⁠<span epub:type="se:name.person">Mother Jones</span></cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“What is this I see, what is this I see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In this year of our Lord 3003?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What ruins are spread in confusion wide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over hill and plain by Potomac’s side?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“These, traveler, these are the leveled stones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Attesting the prowess of Mother Jones.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O plowman, I never in history grew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the high attainments of Smith Carew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose noble book, ‘The Decline and Fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of America,’ holds the respect of all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Mother Jones I often have heard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But thought⁠—pray pardon if I have erred⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the ancient lady became renowned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By embroidering cats on a velvet ground.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Your error is wide, remote, extreme:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not the needle’s shine, but the sabre’s gleam</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Delighted of old her heroic soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made her unloved of the Lords of Coal.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In that distant day when the miner ‘rose,’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to spite his countenance severed his nose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And owners permitted each mine of the trust</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fill up with water to lay his dust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She marshaled the women, with sabre and gun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And marched with banners on Washington.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I see, I see in these ruins gray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through which you are urging your plowshare gay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The work of their hands, slender and white,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That plied the pick and the crowbar bright.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“The cannon, my friend⁠—but no harm was done,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For before the city was overrun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the warrior-dames of that rebel rout</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The politicians had cleaned it out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the stones that about the plain they spread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were served to the poor when they asked for bread.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O affable plowman, Fd fain admire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your tale, but, alas, I’m myself a liar!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Besides, I’ve a better one, which, mayhap.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’d like to be hearing.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="right">“Giddap, giddap”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-hesitating-veteran" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Hesitating Veteran</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When I was young and full of faith</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And other fads that youngsters cherish</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A cry rose as of one that saith</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With emphasis: “Help or I perish!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas heard in all the land, and men</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sound were each to each repeating.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It made my heart beat faster then</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Than any heart can now be beating.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For the world is old and the world is gray⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Grown prudent and, I guess, more witty.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She’s cut her wisdom teeth, they say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And doesn’t now go in for Pity.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Besides, the melancholy cry</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was that of one, ’tis now conceded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose plight no one beneath the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Felt half so poignantly as he did.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Moreover, he was black. And yet</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That sentimental generation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With an austere compassion set</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Its face and faith to the occasion.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then there were hate and strife to spare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And various hard knocks a-plenty;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I (’twas more than my true share,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I must confess) took five-and-twenty.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That all is over now⁠—the reign</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of love and trade stills all dissensions,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the clear heavens arch again</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Above a land of peace and pensions.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The black chap⁠—at the last we gave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Him everything that he had cried for,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though many white chaps in the grave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">’Twould puzzle to say what they died for.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I hope he’s better off⁠—I trust</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That his society and his master’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are worth the price we paid, and must</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Continue paying, in disasters;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But sometimes doubts press thronging round</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(’Tis mostly when my hurts are aching)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If war for union was a sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And profitable undertaking.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Tis said they mean to take away</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Negro’s vote for he’s unlettered.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis true he sits in darkness day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And night, as formerly, when fettered;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But pray observe⁠—howe’er he vote</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To whatsoever party turning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’ll be with gentlemen of note</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And wealth and consequence and learning.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With saints and sages on each side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How could a fool through lack of knowledge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vote wrong? If learning is no guide</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Why ought one to have been in college?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Son of Day, O Son of Night!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What are your preferences made of?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know not which of you is right,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor which to be the more afraid of.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The world is old and the world is bad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And creaks and grinds upon its axis;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And man’s an ape and the gods are mad!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">There’s nothing sure, not even our taxes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No mortal man can Truth restore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or say where she is to be sought for.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know what uniform I wore⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">O, that I knew which side I fought for!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-years-casualties" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Year’s “Casualties”</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Slain as they lay by the secret, slow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pitiless hand of an unseen foe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two score thousand old soldiers have crossed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The river to join the loved and lost.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the space of a year their spirits fled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Silent and white, to the camp of the dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One after one, they fall asleep</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the pension agents awake to weep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And orphaned statesmen are loud in their wail</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the souls flit by on the evening gale.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Father of Battles, pray give us release</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the horrors of peace, the horrors of peace!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="inspiration" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Inspiration</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O hoary sculptor, stay thy hand:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I fain would view the lettered stone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What carvest thou?⁠—perchance some grand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And solemn fancy all thine own.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For oft to know the fitting word</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some humble worker God permits.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">“Jain Ann Meginnis,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Agid 3rd.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">He givith His beluved fits.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="today" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To-day</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I saw a man who knelt in prayer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And heard him say:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I’ll lay my inmost spirit bare</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To-day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Lord, for to-morrow and its need</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I do not pray;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let me upon my neighbor feed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To-day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Let me my duty duly shirk</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And run away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From any form or phase of work</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To-day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“From Thy commands exempted still</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Let me obey</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The promptings of my private will</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To-day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Let me no word profane, no lie</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Unthinking say</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If anyone is standing by</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To-day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“My secret sins and vices grave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Let none betray;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The scoffer’s jeers I do not crave</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To-day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“And if to-day my fortune all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Should ebb away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Help me on other men’s to fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To-day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“So, for to-morrow and its mite</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I do not pray;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just give me everything in sight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To-day.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I cried: “Amen!” He rose and ran</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like oil away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I said: “I’ve seen an honest man</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To-day.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-alibi" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Alibi</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A famous journalist, who long</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had told the great unheaded throng</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whate’er they thought, by day or night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was true as Holy Writ, and right,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was caught in⁠—well, on second thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is enough that he was caught,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And being thrown in jail became</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fuel of a public flame.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“<i xml:lang="la">Vox populi vox Dei</i>,” said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The jailer. Inxling bent his head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without remark: that motto good</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In bold-faced type had always stood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Above the columns where his pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had rioted in praise of men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all they said⁠—provided he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was sure they mostly did agree.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Meanwhile a sharp and bitter strife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To take, or save, the culprit’s life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or liberty (which, I suppose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was much the same to him) arose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Outside. The journal that his pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Adorned denounced his crime⁠—but then</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its editor in secret tried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To have the indictment set aside.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The opposition papers swore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His father was a rogue before,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all his wife’s relations were</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like him and similar to her.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They begged their readers to subscribe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A dollar each to make a bribe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That any Judge would feel was large</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enough to prove the gravest charge⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unless, it might be, the defense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Put up superior evidence.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The law’s traditional delay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was all too short: the trial day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dawned red and menacing. The Judge</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sat on the Bench and wouldn’t budge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the motions counsel made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could not move <em>him</em>⁠—and there he stayed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The case must now proceed,” he said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“While I am just in heart and head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It happens⁠—as, indeed, it ought⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Both sides with equal sums have bought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My favor: I can try the cause</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Impartially.” (Prolonged applause.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The prisoner was now arraigned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And said that he was greatly pained</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be suspected⁠—<em>he</em>, whose pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had charged so many other men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With crimes and misdemeanors! “Why,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He said, a tear in either eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“If men who live by crying out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Stop thief!’ are not themselves from doubt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of their integrity exempt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let all forego the vain attempt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make a reputation! Sir,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m innocent, and I demur.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whereat a thousand voices cried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Amain he manifestly lied⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i xml:lang="la">Vox populi</i> as loudly roared</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As bull by <i xml:lang="es">picadores</i> gored,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In his own coin receiving pay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make a Spanish holiday.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The jury⁠—twelve good men and true⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were then sworn in to see it through,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And each made solemn oath that he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As any babe unborn was free</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From prejudice, opinion, thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Respectability, brains⁠—aught</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That could disqualify; and some</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Explained that they were deaf and dumb.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A better twelve, his Honor said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was rare, except among the dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The witnesses were called and sworn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tales they told made angels mourn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the Good Book they’d kissed became</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Red with the consciousness of shame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whenever one of them approached</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The truth, “That witness wasn’t coached,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your Honor!” cried the lawyers both.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Strike out his testimony,” quoth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The learned judge: “This Court denies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its ear to stories which surprise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hold that witnesses exempt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From coaching all are in contempt.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Both Prosecution and Defense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Applauded the judicial sense,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the spectators all averred</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such wisdom they had never heard:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas plain the prisoner would be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Found guilty in the first degree.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Meanwhile that wight’s pale cheek confessed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The nameless terrors in his breast.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He felt remorseful, too, because</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He wasn’t half they said he was.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“If I’d been such a rogue,” he mused</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On opportunities unused,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I might have easily become</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As wealthy as Methusalum.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This journalist adorned, alas,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The middle, not the Bible, class.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With equal skill the lawyers’ pleas</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Attested their divided fees.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each gave the other one the lie,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then helped him frame a sharp reply.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Good Lord! it was a bitter fight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lasted all the day and night.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When once or oftener the roar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had silenced the judicial snore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The speaker suffered for the sport</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By fining for contempt of court.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Twelve jurors’ noses good and true</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unceasing sang the trial through,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And even <i xml:lang="la">vox populi</i> was spent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In rattles through a nasal vent.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clerk, bailiff, constables and all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heard Morpheus sound the trumpet call</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To arms⁠—his arms⁠—and all fell in</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save counsel for the Man of Sin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That thaumaturgist stood and swayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wand their faculties obeyed⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That magic wand which, like a flame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leapt, wavered, quivered and became</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A wonder-worker⁠—known among</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ignoble vulgar as a Tongue.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>How long, O Lord, how long my verse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Runs on for better or for worse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In meter which o’ermasters me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Octosyllabically free!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A meter which, the poets say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No power of restraint can stay;⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A hard-mouthed meter, suited well</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To him who, having naught to tell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must hold attention as a trout</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is held, by paying out and out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The slender line which else would break</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should one attempt the fish to take.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus tavern guides who’ve naught to show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But some adjacent curio</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By devious trails their patrons lead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And make them think ’tis far indeed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where was I?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i4">While the lawyer talked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rogue took up his feet and walked:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While all about him, roaring, slept,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the street he calmly stepped.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In very truth, the man who thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The people’s voice from heaven had caught</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God’s inspiration took a change</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of venue⁠—it was passing strange!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Straight to his editor he went</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that ingenious person sent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A Negro to impersonate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fugitive. In adequate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Disguise he took his vacant place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And buried in his arms his face.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When all was done the lawyer stopped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And silence like a bombshell dropped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the Court: judge, jury, all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within that venerable hall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Except the deaf and dumb, indeed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And one or two whom death had freed)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Awoke and tried to look as though</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slumber was all they did not know.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And now that tireless lawyer-man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Took breath, and then again began:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Your Honor, if you did attend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To what I’ve urged (my learned friend</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nodded concurrence) to support</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The motion I have made, this court</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May soon adjourn. With your assent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve shown abundant precedent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For introducing now, though late,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>New evidence to exculpate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My client. So, if you’ll allow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll prove an <i xml:lang="la">alibi</i>!” “What?⁠—how?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stammered the judge. “Well, yes, I can’t</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deny your showing, and I grant</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The motion. Do I understand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You undertake to prove⁠—good land!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That when the crime⁠—you mean to show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your client wasn’t <em>there</em>?” “O, no,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I cannot quite do that, I find:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My <i xml:lang="la">alibi’s</i> another kind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of <i xml:lang="la">alibi</i>⁠—I’ll make it clear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your Honor, that he isn’t <em>here</em>.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Darky here upreared his head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tranquillity affrighted fled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And consternation reigned instead!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-meeting" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Meeting</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“Good morning,” said Garfield, extending his hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Parnell in the Heavenly Land.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Good morning, good morning,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Parnell;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I hope (though ’tis needless to ask) you are well.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How sweetly that chorus of cherubim sings!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pray how do you manage these cumbersome wings?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This halo⁠—I dare say I’m terribly green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But somehow I can’t make it hold my dudheen.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This harp is all right, but the shamrock I miss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And⁠—O, by the way, in this region of bliss</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I trust that the rascally schemer who wrote</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Morey epistle, which lost you the vote</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Electoral, I am not likely to meet?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then Garfield, his eyes on the cloud at his feet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Burned in the cheeks with a fervor divine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That conquered his halo’s inferior shine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then said, with a look that was level and far:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I fear (to be honest and frank) that you are.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The person who wrote that mysterious, queer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bad letter is here⁠—ah, exceedingly here.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he smiled in an infantile sort of a way.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a man with a qualm, and went on to say:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I’m happy to meet you. What news from below?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Did it look when you left there as if they would show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who wrote, with a villainous purpose in view,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The peppery letters imputed to you?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Parnell: “Yes, it did, I must say⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In fact, that’s the reason I hastened away.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then they sang a psalm, and they sang so well</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Murchison heard it while sobbing in Hell.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="j-f-b" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">
					<abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:personal-name">J. F. B.</abbr>
				</h3>
				<p>
					<span>How well this man unfolded to our view</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The world’s beliefs of Death and Heaven and Hell⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">This man whose own convictions none could tell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor if his maze of reason had a clew.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dogmas he wrote for daily bread, but knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The fair philosophies of doubt so well</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That while we listened to his words there fell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some that were strangely comforting, though true.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Marking how wise we grew upon his doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We said: “If so, by groping in the night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He can proclaim some certain paths of trust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How great our profit if he saw about</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His feet the highways leading to the light.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Now he sees all. Ah, Christ! his mouth is dust!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-dying-statesman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Dying Statesman</h3>
				<p>
					<span>It is a politician man⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He draweth near his end,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And friends weep round that partisan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of every man the friend.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Between the Known and the Unknown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He lieth on the strand;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The light upon the sea is thrown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That lay upon the land.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It shineth in his glazing eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It burneth on his face;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God send that when we come to die</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We know that sign of grace!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Upon his lips his blessed sprite</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Poiseth her joyous wing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“How is it with thee, child of light?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dost hear the angels sing?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“The song I hear, the crown I see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And know that God is love.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Farewell, dark world⁠—I go to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A postmaster above!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For him no monumental arch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But, O, ’tis good and brave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see the Grand Old Party march</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To office o’er his grave!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-death-of-grant" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Death of Grant</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Father! whose hard and cruel law</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is part of thy compassion’s plan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thy works presumptuously we scan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For what the prophets say they saw.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Unbidden still the awful slope</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Walling us in we climb to gain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Assurance of the shining plain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That faith has certified to hope.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In vain!⁠—beyond the circling hill</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The shadow and the cloud abide.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Subdue the doubt, our spirits guide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To trust the Record and be still.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To trust it loyally as he</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who, heedful of his high design,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ne’er raised a seeking eye to thine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But wrought thy will unconsciously,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Disputing not of chance or fate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor questioning of cause or creed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For anything but duty’s deed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Too simply wise, too humbly great.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The cannon syllabled his name;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His shadow shifted o’er the land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Portentous, as at his command</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Successive cities sprang to flame!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He fringed the continent with fire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The rivers ran in lines of light!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thy will be done on earth⁠—if right</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or wrong he cared not to inquire.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His was the heavy hand, and his</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The service of the despot blade;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His the soft answer that allayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>War’s giant animosities.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let us have peace: our clouded eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fill, Father, with another light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That we may see with clearer sight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy servant’s soul in Paradise.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-fountain-refilled" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Fountain Refilled</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Of Hans Pietro Shanahan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Who was a most ingenious man)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Muse of History records</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That he’d get drunk as twenty lords.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He’d get so truly drunk that men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stood by to marvel at him when</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His slow advance along the street</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was but a vain cycloidal feat.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And when ’twas fated that he fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a wide geographical sprawl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They signified assent by sounds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heard (faintly) at its utmost bounds.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And yet this <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Shanahan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Who was a most ingenious man)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cast not on wine his thirsty eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When it was red or otherwise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All malt, or spirituous, tope</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He loathed as cats dissent from soap;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cider, if it touched his lip,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Evoked a groan at every sip.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But still, as heretofore explained,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He not infrequently was grained.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(I’m not of those who call it “corned.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Coarse speech I’ve always duly scorned.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Though truth to say, and that’s but right,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strong drink (it hath an adder’s bite!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was what had put him in the mud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The only kind he used was blood!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Alas, that an immortal soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Addicted to the flowing bowl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The emptied flagon should again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Replenish from a neighbor’s vein.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But, <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Shanahan was so</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Constructed, and his taste that low.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor more deplorable was he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In kind of thirst than in degree;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For sometimes fifty souls would pay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The debt of nature in a day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To free him from the shame and pain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of dread Sobriety’s misreign.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His native land, proud of its sense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of his unique inabstinence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Abated something of its pride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At thought of his unfilled inside.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And some the boldness had to say</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twere well if he were called away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To slake his thirst forevermore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In oceans of celestial gore.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But Hans Pietro Shanahan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Who was a most ingenious man)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knew that his thirst was mortal; so</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remained unsainted here below⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Unsainted and unsaintly, for</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He neither went to glory nor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To abdicate his power deigned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where, under Providence, he reigned,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But kept his Boss’s power accurst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To serve his wild uncommon thirst.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which now had grown so truly great</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was a drain upon the State.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Soon, soon there came a time, alas!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When he turned down an empty glass⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All practicable means were vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His special wassail to obtain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In vain poor Decimation tried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To furnish forth the needful tide;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Civil War as vainly shed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her niggard offering of red.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Poor Shanahan! his thirst increased</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until he wished himself deceased,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Invoked the firearm and the knife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But could not die to save his life!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He was so dry his own veins made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No answer to the seeking blade;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So parched that when he would have passed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Away he could not breathe his last.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Twas then, when almost in despair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Unlaced his shoon, unkempt his hair)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He saw as in a dream a way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To wet afresh his mortal clay.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yes, Hans Pietro Shanahan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Who was a most ingenious man)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saw freedom, and with joy and pride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Thalassa! (or Thalatta!)” cried.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Straight to the Aldermen went he,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With many a “pull” and many a fee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And many a most corrupt “combine”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(The Press for twenty cents a line</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Held out and fought him⁠—O, God, bless</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forevermore the holy Press!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till he had franchises complete</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For trolley lines on every street!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The cars were builded and, they say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were run on rails laid every way⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rhomboidal roads, and circular,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And oval⁠—everywhere a car⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Square, dodecagonal (in great</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Esteem the shape called Figure 8)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And many other kinds of shapes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As various as tails of apes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No other group of men’s abodes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>E’er had such odd electric roads,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That winding in and winding out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Began and ended all about.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No city had, unless in Mars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That city’s wealth of trolley cars.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They ran by day, they flew by night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And O, the sorry, sorry sight!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And Hans Pietro Shanahan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Who was a most ingenious man)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Incessantly, the Muse records,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lay drunk as twenty thousand lords!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="laus-lucis" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Laus Lucis</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>Theosophists are about to build a “Temple for the revival of the Mysteries of Antiquity.”</p>
						<cite>—⁠Vide the Newspapers, passim</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Each to his taste: some men prefer to play</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At mystery, as others at piquet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some sit in mystic meditation; some</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Parade the street with tambourine and drum.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One studies to decipher ancient lore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which, proving stuff, he studies all the more;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Another swears that learning is but good</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To darken things already understood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then writes upon Simplicity so well</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That none agree on what he wants to tell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And future ages will declare his pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Inspired by gods with messages to men.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To found an ancient order those devote</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their time⁠—with ritual, regalia, goat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blankets for tossing, chairs of little ease</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the modern inconveniences;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These, saner, frown upon unmeaning rites</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And go to church for rational delights.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So all are suited, shallow and profound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The prophets prosper and the world goes round.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For me⁠—unread in the occult, I’m fain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To damn all mysteries alike as vain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spurn the obscure and base my faith upon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Revelations of the good <abbr>St.</abbr> John.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="nanine" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Nanine</h3>
				<p>
					<span>We heard a song-bird trilling⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">’Twas but a night ago.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such rapture he was rilling</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As only we could know.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This morning he is flinging</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His music from the tree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But something in the singing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is not the same to me.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His inspiration fails him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or he has lost his skill.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nanine, Nanine, what ails him</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That he should sing so ill?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nanine is not replying⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She hears no earthly song.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sun and bird are lying</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the night is, O, so long!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="technology" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Technology</h3>
				<p>
					<span>’Twas a serious person with locks of gray</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And a figure like a crescent;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His gravity, clearly, had come to stay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But his smile was evanescent.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He stood and conversed with a neighbor, and</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With (likewise) a high falsetto;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he stabbed his forefinger into his hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As if it had been a stiletto.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His words, like the notes of a tenor drum,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Came out of his head unblended,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the wonderful altitude of some</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was exceptionally splendid.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>While executing a shake of the head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With the hand, as it were, of a master,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This agonizing old gentleman said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“ ’Twas a truly sad disaster!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Four hundred and ten longs and shorts in all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Went down”⁠—he paused and snuffled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A single tear was observed to fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the old man’s drum was muffled.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“A very calamitous year,” he said.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And again his head-piece hoary</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He shook, and another pearl he shed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As if he wept <i xml:lang="it">con amore.</i></span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O lacrymose person,” I cried, “pray why</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Should these failures so affect you?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With speculators in stocks no eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That’s normal would ever connect you.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He focused his orbs upon mine and smiled</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In a sinister sort of manner.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Young man,” he said, “your words are wild:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I spoke of the steamship ‘Hanner.’</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“For she has went down in a howlin’ squall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And my heart is nigh to breakin’⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Four hundred and ten longs and shorts in all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Will never need undertakin’!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I’m in the business myself,” said he,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“And you’ve mistook my expression;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For I uses the technical terms, you see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Employed in my perfession.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That old undertaker has joined the throng</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On the other side of the River,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I’m still unhappy to think I’m a “long,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And a tape-line makes me shiver.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-reply-to-a-letter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Reply to a Letter</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O nonsense, parson⁠—tell me not they thrive</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And jubilate who follow your dictation.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The good are the unhappiest lot alive⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I know they are from careful observation.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If freedom from the terrors of damnation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lengthens the visage like a telescope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lacrymation is a sign of hope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Then I’ll continue, in my dreadful plight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To tread the dusky paths of sin, and grope</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Contentedly without your lantern’s light;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And though in many a bog beslubbered quite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Refuse to flay me with ecclesiastic soap.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You say ’tis a sad world, seeing I’m condemned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With many a million others of my kidney.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each continent’s Hammed, Japheted and Shemmed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With sinners⁠—worldlings like Sir Philip Sidney</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And scoffers like Voltaire, who thought it bliss</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To simulate respect for Genesis⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who bent the mental knee as if in prayer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But mocked at Moses underneath his hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And like an angry gander bowed his head to hiss.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Seeing such as these, who die without contrition,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Must go to⁠—beg your pardon, sir⁠—perdition,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sons of light, you tell me, can’t be gay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But count it sin of the sort called omission</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The groan to smother or the tear to stay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or fail to⁠—what is that they live by?⁠—pray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So down they flop, and the whole serious race is</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Put by divine compassion on a praying basis.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Well, if you take it so to heart, while yet</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our own hearts are so light with nature’s leaven,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’ll weep indeed when we in Hades sweat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And you look down upon us out of Heaven.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In fancy, lo! I see your wailing shades</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thronging the crystal battlements. Cascades</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of tears spring singing from each golden spout,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Run roaring from the verge with hoarser sound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dash downward through the glimmering profound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quench the tormenting flame and put the Devil out!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Presumptuous ass! to you no power belongs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To pitchfork me to Heaven upon the prongs</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of a bad pen, whose disobedient sputter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With less of ink than incoherence fraught</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Befits the folly that it tries to utter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Brains, I observe, as well as tongues, can stutter:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You suffer from impediment of thought.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Save when considering your bread-and-butter.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When next you “point the way to Heaven,” take care:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your fingers all being thumbs, point, Heaven knows where!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Farewell, poor dunce! your letter though I blame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bears witness how my anger I can tame:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve called you everything except your hateful name!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-oscar-wilde" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To Oscar Wilde</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Because from Folly’s lips you got</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some babbled mandate to subdue</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The realm of Common Sense, and you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made promise and considered not⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Because you strike a random blow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At what you do not understand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And beckon with a friendly hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To something that you do not know,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I hold no speech of your desert,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor answer with porrected shield</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The wooden weapon that you wield,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But meet you with a cast of dirt.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Dispute with such a thing as you⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Twin show to the two-headed calf?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Why, sir, if I repress my laugh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis more than half the world can do.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1882">1882</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="born-leaders-of-men" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Born Leaders of Men</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Tuckerton Tamerlane Morey Mahosh</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Is a statesman of world-wide fame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With a notable knack at rhetorical bosh</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To glorify somebody’s name⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Somebody chosen by Tuckerton’s masters</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To succor the country from divers disasters</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Portentous to <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Mahosh.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Percy O’Halloran Tarpy Cabee</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Is in the political swim.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He cares not a button for men, not he:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Great principles captivate him⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Principles cleverly cut out and fitted</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Percy’s capacity, duly submitted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And fought for by <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Cabee.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Drusus Turn Swinnerton Porfer Fitzurse</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Holds office the most of his life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For men nor for principles cares he a curse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">But much for his neighbor’s wife.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Ship of State leaks, but <em>he</em> doesn’t pump any⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span><abbr>Messrs.</abbr> Mahosh, Cabee &amp; Company</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pump for good <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Fitzurse.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-crime-of-1903" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Crime of 1903</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Time was, not very long ago,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As by historians time is reckoned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When first of virtues here below</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was hatred of secession, though</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some swore it wasn’t even second;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But these (they mostly were down South)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Have all renounced their view with candor⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some tardily by word of mouth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some, earlier, in a manner grander.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To stamp their error out, ’tis true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We paid enough of blood (the treasure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would pave with gold an avenue)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To float a battleship or two,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If so the cost we choose to measure.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas worth it all, we say and say⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The President has often said it;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so it was⁠—to us; and they</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Say nothing, as a rule, who shed it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Times change and we change with them,” men</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of old renown averred in Latin;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that’s as true on tongue or pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This blessed century as when</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The seat of empire Caesar sat in.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For see how many play their parts</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As ardent lovers of secession.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Promoting it with all their hearts⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In countries out of our possession.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O men of variable views,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How can you be so light and fickle?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is it because you think the news</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Panama portends no bruise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To you, nor payment of a nickel?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay, is It that you scent a gain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In troubles of a neighbor nation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so appraise her loss and pain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As nothing worth a valuation?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Those Ills ’tis easy to endure</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That light upon and sting another⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That’s Christian fortitude; but sure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There’s somewhere an account of your</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Least feeling toward a hapless brother.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Himself may show by deed and speech</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Less racial sympathies than tribal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But⁠—well, this is no place to preach;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sermon’s mostly in the Bible.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We’re false to trust and quick to spy</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The fissure in a friendly armor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even Freedom can no more rely</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Upon our promise not to harm her.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Guardian of Continents,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My country! shall that evil dower,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The passion for preeminence.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cry from thy seaward battlements</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A soul already drunk with power?</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1903">1903</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="for-expulsion" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">For Expulsion</h3>
				<p>
					<span>They say. Brig. Roberts, you have seven wives,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And every one a beauty! As to that</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m not informed; in the domestic hives</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Utah, where I’ve sometimes hung my hat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Not all the dames were comely. Like a cat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That has nine lives and must support them all,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You have to hustle round a bit, I fancy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now don’t you really agree with Paul</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That women are the devil?⁠—even Nancy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Mary Jane and Caroline and Ella</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Ruth and Adeline and Isabella!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If I had half as many wives as you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(That’s three wives and a half as I compute)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hardly know what I’d be driven to.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I might in desperation play the flute,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or Congress find in me a raw recruit.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, I suppose, the country would uprise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And say the things I least should care to hear:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And virtuous editors would damn my eyes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And cartilaginous virgins pain my ear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now and then some pious person clamor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blessed with one wife, ten wenches and no grammar.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All that and more you’re suffering, my friend,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For, having married all the maids you saw,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You contumaciously refuse to bend</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A corrigible back to altered law</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And leave them (all but one) lamenting. Pshaw!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Don’t be so squeamish. Yes, the children may</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lament a little too when made acquainted</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With their mischance in being put away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And your own countenance with shame be painted;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that’s the smallest price for which we’ll sell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A seat in Congress and a bed in Hell.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="judex-jocosus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Judex Jocosus</h3>
				<p>
					<span>We blench when maniacs to dance begin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What makes a skull so dreadful is the grin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When horrible and ludicrous unite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our sense of humor does but feed our fright.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the shocked spirit with a double dread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Might see a monkey watching by the dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or headsman part a neck, without a fault.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While turning o’er the block a somersault.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, Judge Hilario, the untroubled awe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And reverence men cherish for the law</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Turn all to terror when with wit profound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tricksy humor you the law expound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More frightful sounds the felon’s doom by half</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From lips still twisted to an idiot laugh.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="graft" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">“Graft”</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Cuba, our pupil, let thy glory shine⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our own is brighter, but effulgent thine!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lately thine arms struck terror to the foe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now thy hands bring treasuries to woe!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Daughter of Terrors, Mother of Alarms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Courage himself may fly before thine arms;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But O, what thing escapes, what thing withstands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The power of those comprehensive hands?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-tale-of-a-crime" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Tale of a Crime</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Once, in the olden time, a certain King</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(But where he reigned I know not) said: “Go bring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My Chief Adviser here before the throne.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cut his head off clear down to the bone!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“With pleasure, Sire,” said⁠—keen to earn his wage⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The High Dissuader from the Sin of Age;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“But kings should still be civil, even when just:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’ll charge the villain with some crime, I trust?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Why, that’s no more than fair,” the King replied.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They brought the culprit in, securely tied.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the King said: “Let some one who can read</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stand forward and unfold the Golden Screed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bright with the names of all the sins and crimes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And vices ever known from ancient times.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We’ll fit the fellow for the headsman’s prank</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With one appropriate to his face and rank”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In drowsy monotone the Lector read</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shining list, beginning at the head.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(<i xml:lang="fr">Lèse majesté</i> was naturally first⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of crimes conceivable, the blackest, worst!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As each was named the prisoner addressed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The throne and, as the law compelled, confessed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas fatal not to: in that olden day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Little was heard about the law’s delay.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But still the royal taste could find for him</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No crime well suited to the royal whim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, wearied by the reader’s droning voice.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sovereign fell asleep, nor made a choice⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Snored like an organ till the stones were jarred</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Distinguishing the palace from the yard.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Meantime, the accused continued to confess,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each nod said “guilty” and each look said “yes.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And still the monarch slept: each courtier feared</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To wake him lest himself should “lose his beard.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(’Twas a fine euphemism, and meant his head⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some things for prudence are obliquely said.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“<i xml:lang="la">Finis</i>” the reader said, and roundabout</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fell silence like a loud awakening shout!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The startled sovereign left a snore half-snored⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“That’s what the scoundrel’s guilty of!” he roared.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So there before the king upon his throne.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They cut his head off clean down to the bone!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all the devils made a joyous din</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To celebrate the new and lovely sin.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-the-bartholdi-statue" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To the Bartholdi Statue</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O Liberty, God-gifted⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Young and immortal maid⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In your high hand uplifted;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The torch declares your trade.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Its crimson menace, flaming</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Upon the sea and shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is, trumpet-like, proclaiming</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That Law shall be no more.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Austere incendiary,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We’re blinking in the light;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where is your customary</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Grenade of dynamite?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where are your staves and switches</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For men of gentle birth?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your mask and dirk for riches?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your chains for wit and worth?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Perhaps, you’ve brought the halters</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You used in the old days,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When round religion’s altars</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You stabled Cromwell’s bays?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Behind you, unsuspected,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Have you the axe, fair wench,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherewith you once collected</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A poll-tax from the French?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>America salutes you⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Preparing to “disgorge.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Take everything that suits you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And marry Henry George.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1894">1894</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="an-unmerry-christmas" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Unmerry Christmas</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Christmas, you tell me, comes but once a year.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One place it never comes, and that is here.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here, in these pages no good wishes spring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No well-worn greetings tediously ring⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Christmas greetings are like pots of ore:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hollower they are they ring the more.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here shall no holly cast a spiny shade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor mistletoe my solitude invade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No trinket-laden vegetable come,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No jorum steam with Sheolate of rum.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No shrilling children shall their voices rear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hurrah for Christmas without Christmas cheer!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No presents, if you please⁠—I know too well</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What Herbert Spencer, if he didn’t tell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(I know not if he did) yet might have told</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of present-giving in the days of old,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Early Man with gifts propitiated</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The chiefs whom most he doubted, feared and hated,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or tendered them in hope to reap some rude</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Advantage from the taker’s gratitude.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since thus the Gift its origin derives</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(How much of its first character survives</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You know as well as I) my stocking’s tied,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My pocket buttoned⁠—with my soul inside.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I save my money and I save my pride.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Dinner? Yes; thank you⁠—just a baby’s body</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Done to a nutty brown, and a tear toddy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To give me appetite; and as to drink,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About a half a jug of blood, I think,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will do; for still I love the good red wine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Coagulating well, with wrinkles fine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fretting the satin surface of its flood.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O tope of kings⁠—divine Falernian⁠—blood!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Duse take the shouting fowls upon the limb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The kneeling cattle and the rising hymn!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has not a pagan rights to be regarded⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His heart assaulted and his ear bombarded</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With sentiments and sounds that good old Pan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even in his demonium would ban?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No, friends⁠—no Christmas here, for I have sworn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To keep my heart hard and my knees unworn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enough you have of jester, player, priest:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I as the skeleton attend your feast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the mad revelry to make a lull</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With shaken finger and with bobbing skull.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>However you my services may flout,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Philosophy disdain and reason doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I mean to hold in customary state,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My dismal revelry and celebrate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My yearly rite until the crack o’ doom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ignore the cheerful season’s warmth and bloom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And cultivate an oasis of gloom.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="by-a-defeated-litigant" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">By a Defeated Litigant</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Liars for witnesses; for lawyers brutes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who lose their tempers to retrieve their suits;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cowards for jurors; and for judge a clown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who ne’er took up the law, yet lays it down;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Justice denied, authority abused,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the one honest person the accused⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy courts, my country, all these awful years,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Move fools to laughter and the wise to tears.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-inscription-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">An Inscription</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>For a Proposed Monument in Washington to Him who Made it Beautiful.</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Erected to “Boss” Shepherd by the dear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Good folk he lived and moved among in peace⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Guarded on either hand by the police,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With soldiers in his front and in his rear.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="from-virginia-to-paris" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">From Virginia to Paris</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The polecat, sovereign of its native wood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dashes damnation upon bad and good;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The health of all the upas trees impairs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By exhalations deadlier than theirs;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Poisons the rattlesnake and warts the toad⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The creeks go rotten and the rocks corrode!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She shakes o’er breathless hill and shrinking dale</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The horrid aspergillus of her tail!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From every saturated hair, till dry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The spargent fragrances divergent fly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Deafen the earth and scream along the sky!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Removed to alien scenes, amid the strife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of urban odors to ungladden life⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where gas and sewers and dead dogs conspire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flesh to torture and the soul to fire⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where all the “well defined and several stinks”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Known to mankind hold revel and high jinks⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Humbled in spirit, smitten with a sense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of lost distinction, leveled eminence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She suddenly resigns her baleful trust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor ever lays again our mortal dust.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her powers atrophied, her vigor sunk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She lives deodorized, a sweeter skunk.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-mute-inglorious-milton" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A “Mute Inglorious Milton”</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“O, I’m the Unaverage Man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But you never have heard of me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For my brother, the Average Man, outran</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My fame with rapiditee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And I’m sunk in Oblivion’s sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But my bully big brother the world can span</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With his wide notorietee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I do everything that I can</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To make ’em attend to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the papers ignore the Unaverage Man</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With a weird uniformitee.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So sang with a dolorous note</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A voice that I heard from the beach;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the sable waters it seemed to float</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like a mortal part of speech.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sea was Oblivion’s sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And I cried as I plunged to swim:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The Unaverage Man shall reside with me.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But he didn’t⁠—I stayed with him!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-free-traders-lament" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Free Trader’s Lament</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Oft from a trading-boat I purchased spice</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And shells and corals, brought for my inspection</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the fair tropics⁠—paid a Christian price</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And was content in my fool’s paradise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where never had been heard the word “Protection.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Twas my sole island; there I dwelt alone⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No customs-house, collector nor collection,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But a man came, who, in a pious tone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Condoled with me that I had never known</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The manifest advantage of Protection.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So, when the trading-boat arrived one day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He threw a stink-pot into its mid-section.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The traders paddled for their lives away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor came again into that haunted bay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The blessed home thereafter of Protection.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then down he sat, that philanthropic man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And spat upon some mud of his selection,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And worked it, with his knuckles in a pan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To shapes of shells and coral things, and span</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A thread of song in glory of Protection.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He baked them in the sun. His air devout</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Enchanted me. I made a genuflexion:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“God help you, gentle sir,” I said. “No doubt,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He answered gravely, “I’ll get on without</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Assistance now that we have got Protection.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thenceforth I bought his wares⁠—at what a price</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For shells and corals of such imperfection!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Ah, now,” said he, “your lot is truly nice.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But still in all that isle there was no spice</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To season to my taste that dish, Protection.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="subterranean-phantasies" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Subterranean Phantasies</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I died. As meekly in the earth I lay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With shriveled fingers reverently folded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The worm⁠—uncivil engineer!⁠—my clay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Tunneled industriously, and the mole did.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My body could not dodge them, but my soul did;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For that had flown from this terrestrial ball</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I was rid of it for good and all.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So there I lay, debating what to do⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What measures might most usefully be taken</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To circumvent the subterranean crew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of anthropophagi and save my bacon.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My fortitude was all this while unshaken,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But any gentleman, of course, protests</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against receiving uninvited guests.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>However proud he might be of his meats,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Not even Apicius, nor, I think, Lucullus,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wasted on tramps his culinary sweets;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“<i xml:lang="la">Aut Cӕsar</i>,” say judicious hosts, “<i xml:lang="la">aut nullus</i>.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And though when Marcius came unbidden Tullus</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Aufidius feasted him because he starved,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Marcius by Tullus afterward was carved.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We feed the hungry, as the book commands</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(For men might question else our orthodoxy)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But do not care to see the outstretched hands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And so we minister to them by proxy.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When Want, in his improper person, knocks he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Finds we’re engaged. The graveworm’s very fresh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To think we like his presence in the flesh.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So, as I said, I lay in doubt; in all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That underworld no judges could determine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My rights. When Death approaches them they fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And falling, naturally soil their ermine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And still below ground, as above, the vermin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That work by dark and silent methods win</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The case⁠—the burial case that one is in.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Cases at law so slowly get ahead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Even when the right is visibly unclouded,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That if all men are classed as quick and dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The judges all are dead, though some unshrouded.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pray Jove that when they’re actually crowded</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On Styx’s brink, and Charon rows in sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His bark prove worse than Cerberus’s bite.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah! Cerberus, if you had but begot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A race of three-mouthed dogs for man to nourish</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And woman to caress, the muse had not</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lamented the decay of virtues currish,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And triple-hydrophobia now would flourish,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For barking, biting, kissing to employ</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Canine repeaters were indeed a joy.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lord! how we cling to this vile world! Here I,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whose dust was laid ere I began this carping,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By moles and worms and such familiar fry</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Run through and through, am singing still and harping</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of mundane matters⁠—flatting, too, and sharping.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I hate the Angel of the Sleeping Cup:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I’m for getting⁠—and for shutting⁠—up.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-memoriam" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">In Memoriam</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Beauty (they called her) wasn’t a maid</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of many things in the world afraid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She wasn’t a maid who turned and fled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At sight of a mouse, alive or dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She wasn’t a maid a man could “shoo”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By shouting, however abruptly, “Boo!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She wasn’t a maid who’d run and hide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If her face and figure you idly eyed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She was’nt a maid who’d blush and shake</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When asked what part of the fowl she’d take.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(I blush myself to confess she preferred,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And commonly got, the most of the bird.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She wasn’t a maid to simper because</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She was asked to sing⁠—if she ever was.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In short, if the truth must be displayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i xml:lang="la">In puris</i>⁠—Beauty wasn’t a maid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beauty, furry and fine and fat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yawny and clawy, sleek and all that,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was a pampered and spoiled Angora cat!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I loved her well, and I’m proud that she</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wasn’t indifferent, quite, to me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In fact I have sometimes gone so far</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(You know, mesdames, how silly men are)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As to think she preferred⁠—excuse the conceit⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>My</em> legs upon which to sharpen her feet.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perhaps it shouldn’t have gone for much,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I started and thrilled beneath her touch!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, well, that’s ancient history now:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fingers of Time have touched my brow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I hear with never a start to-day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Beauty has passed from the earth away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gone!⁠—her death-song (it killed her) sung.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gone!⁠—her fiddlestrings all unstrung.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gone to the bliss of a new <i xml:lang="fr">régime</i></span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of turkey smothered in seas of cream;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of roasted mice (a superior breed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To science unknown and the coarser need</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the living cat) cooked by the flame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the dainty soul of an erring dame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who gave to purity all her care,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Neglecting the duty of daily prayer⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crisp, delicate mice, just touched with spice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the ghost of a breeze from Paradise;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A very digestible sort of mice.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let scoffers sneer, I propose to hold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Beauty has mounted the Stair of Gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To eat and eat, forever and aye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On a velvet rug from a golden tray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the human spirit⁠—that is my creed⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rots in the ground like a barren seed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That is my creed, abhorred by Man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But approved by Cat since time began.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till Death shall kick at me, thundering “Scat!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I shall hold to that, I shall hold to that.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-statesmen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Statesmen</h3>
				<p>
					<span>How blest the land that counts among</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Her sons so many good and wise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To execute great feats of tongue</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">When troubles rise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Behold them mounting every stump</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our liberty by speech to guard.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Observe their courage:⁠—see them jump</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And come down hard!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Walk up, walk up!” each cries aloud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“And learn from me what you must do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To turn aside the thunder cloud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The earthquake too.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Beware the wiles of yonder quack</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who stuffs the ears of all that pass.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I⁠—I alone can show that black</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Is white as grass.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They shout through all the day and break</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The silence of the night as well.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They’d make⁠—I wish they’d <em>go</em> and make⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of Heaven a Hell.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A advocates free silver, B</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Free trade and C free banking laws.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Free board, clothes, lodging would from me</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Win warm applause.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lo, D lifts up his voice: “You see</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The single tax on land would fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On all alike.” More evenly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">No tax at all.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“With paper money” bellows E</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“We’ll all be rich as lords.” No doubt⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And richest of the lot will be</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The chap without.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As many “cures” as addle wits</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who know not what the ailment is!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Meanwhile the patient foams and spits</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Like a gin fizz.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Alas, poor Body Politic,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your fate is all too clearly read:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be not altogether quick,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Nor very dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You take your exercise in squirms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your rest in fainting fits between.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis plain that your disorder’s worms⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Worms fat and lean.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Worm Capital, Worm Labor dwell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Within your maw and muscle’s scope.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their quarrels make your life a Hell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Your death a hope.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>God send you find not such an end</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To ills however sharp and huge!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God send you convalesce! God send</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">You vermifuge.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-brothers" epub:type="z3998:drama">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Brothers</h3>
				<section id="the-brothers-scene" epub:type="z3998:scene">
					<p>Scene: A lawyer’s dreadful den.</p>
					<p epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Enter stall-fed citizen.</p>
					<table epub:type="z3998:scene">
						<tbody>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lawyer</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Mornin’. How-de-do?</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Citizen</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Sir, same to you.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Called as counsel to retain you</span>
										<br/>
										<span>In a case that I’ll explain you.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Sad, <em>so</em> sad! Heart almost broke.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Hang it! where’s my kerchief? Smoke?</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Brother, sir, and I, of late,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Came into a large estate.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Brother’s⁠—h’m, ha⁠—rather queer</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Sometimes <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">tapping forehead</i> here.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>What he needs⁠—you know⁠—a “writ”⁠—</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Something, eh? that will permit</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Me to manage, sir, in fine,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>His estate, as well as mine.</span>
										<br/>
										<span class="i1">Of course he’ll storm; ’twill break, I fear,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>His loving heart⁠—excuse this tear.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lawyer</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Have you nothing more?</span>
										<br/>
										<span>All of this you said before⁠—</span>
										<br/>
										<span>When last night I took your case.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Citizen</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Why, sir, your face</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Ne’er before has met my view!</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Lawyer</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Eh? The devil! True:</span>
										<br/>
										<span>My mistake⁠—it was your brother.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>But you’re very like each other.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
						</tbody>
					</table>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="the-cynics-bequest" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Cynic’s Bequest</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In that fair city, Ispahan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There dwelt a problematic man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose angel never was released,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who never once let out his beast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But kept, through all the seasons’ round,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Silence unbroken and profound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No Prophecy, with ear applied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To key-hole of the future, tried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Successfully to catch a hint</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of what he’d do nor when begin ’t;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As sternly did his past defy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mild Retrospection’s backward eye.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though all admired his silent ways,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The women loudest were in praise:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For ladies love those men the most</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who never, never, never boast⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who ne’er disclose their aims and ends</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To naughty, naughty, naughty friends.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet, sooth to say, the fame outran</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The merit of this doubtful man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For taciturnity in him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though not a mere caprice or whim,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was not a virtue, such as truth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>High birth, or beauty, wealth or youth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas known, indeed, throughout the span</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Ispahan, of Gulistan⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These utmost limits of the earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knew that the man was dumb from birth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Unto the Sun with deep salaams</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Parsee spreads his morning palms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(A beacon blazing on a height</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Warms o’er his piety by night.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Moslem deprecates the deed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cuts off the head that holds the creed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then reverently goes to grass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Muttering thanks to Balaam’s Ass</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For faith and learning to refute</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Idolatry so dissolute!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But should a maniac dash past,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With straws in beard and hands upcast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To him (through whom, whene’er inclined</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To preach a bit to Madmankind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Holy Prophet speaks his mind)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our True Believer lifts his eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Devoutly and his prayer applies;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But next to Solyman the Great</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reveres the idiot’s sacred state.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Small wonder then, our worthy mute</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was held in popular repute.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had he been blind as well as mum,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Been lame as well as blind and dumb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No bard that ever sang or soared</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could say how he had been adored.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More meagerly endowed, he drew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An homage less prodigious. True,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No soul his praises but did utter⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All plied him with devotion’s butter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But none had out⁠—’twas to their credit⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The proselyting sword to spread it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I state these truths, exactly why</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The reader knows as well as I;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They’ve nothing in the world to do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With what I hope we’re coming to</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If Pegasus be good enough</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To move when he has stood enough.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Egad! his ribs I would examine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had I a sharper spur than famine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or even with that if ’twould incline</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To examine his instead of mine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where was I? Ah, that silent man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who dwelt one time in Ispahan⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He had a name⁠—was known to all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As Meerza Solyman Zingall.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>There lived afar in Astrabad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man the world agreed was mad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So wickedly he broke his joke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the heads of duller folk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So miserly, from day to day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He gathered up and hid away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In vaults obscure and cellars haunted</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What many worthy people wanted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A stingy man!⁠—the tradesmen’s palms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were spread in vain: “I give no alms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without inquiry”⁠—so he’d say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And beat the needy duns away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bastinado did, ’tis true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Persuade him, now and then, a few</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Odd tens of thousands to disburse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To glut the taxman’s hungry purse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But still, so rich he grew, his fear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was constant that the Shah might hear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(The Shah had heard it long ago,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And asked the taxman if ’twere so,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who promptly answered, rather airish,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The man had long been on the parish.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The more he feared, the more he grew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A cynic and a miser, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until his bitterness and pelf</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made him a terror to himself;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, with a razor’s neckwise stroke,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He tartly cut his final joke.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So perished, not an hour too soon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wicked Muley Ben Maroon.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From Astrabad to Ispahan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At camel speed the rumor ran</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That, breaking through tradition hoar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And throwing all his kinsmen o’er,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The miser’d left his mighty store</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of gold⁠—his palaces and lands⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To needy and deserving hands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Except a penny here and there</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To pay the dervishes for prayer.)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas known indeed throughout the span</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of earth, and into Hindostan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That our beloved mute was the</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Residuary legatee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The people said ’twas very well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And each man had a tale to tell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of how he’d had a finger in ’t</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By dropping many a friendly hint</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At Astrabad, you see. But ah,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They feared the news might reach the Shah!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To prove the will the lawyers bore ’t</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before the Kadi’s awful court,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who nodded, when he heard it read,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Confirmingly his drowsy head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor thought, his sleepiness so great,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Himself to gobble the estate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I give,” the dead had writ, “my all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Meerza Solyman Zingall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Ispahan. With this estate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I might quite easily create</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ten thousand ingrates, but I shun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Temptation and create but one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In whom the whole unthankful crew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rich man’s air that ever drew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fat their pauper lungs I fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vicarious with vain desire!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From foul Ingratitude’s base rout</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I pick this hapless devil out,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bestowing on him all my lands,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My treasures, camels, slaves and bands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of wives⁠—I give him all this loot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And throw my blessing in to boot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behold, O man, in this bequest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Philanthropy’s long wrongs redressed:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To speak me ill that man I dower</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With fiercest will who lacks the power.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Allah il Allah! now let him bloat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With rancor till his heart’s afloat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unable to discharge the wave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon his benefactor’s grave!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Forth in their wrath the people came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And swore it was a sin and shame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To trick their blessed mute; and each</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Protested, serious of speech,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That though <em>he’d</em> long foreseen the worst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’d been against it from the first.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By various means they vainly tried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The testament to set aside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each ready with his empty purse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To take upon himself the curse;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For <em>they</em> had powers of invective</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enough to make it ineffective.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The ingrates mustered, every man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And marched in force to Ispahan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Which had not quite accommodation)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And held a camp of indignation.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The man, this while, who never spoke⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On whom had fallen this thunder-stroke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of fortune, gave no feeling vent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor dropped a clue to his intent.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whereas no power to him came</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His benefactor to defame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some (such a length had slander gone to)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even whispered that he didn’t want to!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But none his secret could divine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If suffering he made no sign,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until one night as winter neared</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From all his haunts he disappeared⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Evanished in a doubtful blank</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like little crayfish in a bank,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their heads retracting for a spell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And pulling in their holes as well.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All through the land of Gul, the stout</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Young Spring is kicking Winter out.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The grass sneaks in upon the scene,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Defacing it with bottle-green.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stumbling lamb arrives to ply</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His restless tail in every eye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eats nasty mint to spoil his meat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And make himself unfit to eat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Madly his throat the bulbul tears⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In every grove blasphemes and swears</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the immodest rose displays</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Her shameless charms a dozen ways.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo! now, throughout the utmost span</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Ispahan⁠—of Gulistan⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A big new book’s displayed in all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shops and cumbers every stall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The price is low⁠—the dealers say ’tis⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the rich are treated to it gratis.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Engraven on its foremost page</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These title-words the eye engage:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The Life of Muley Ben Maroon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Astrabad⁠—Rogue, Thief, Buffoon</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Miser⁠—Liver by the Sweat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Better Men: A Lamponette</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Composed in Rhyme and Written all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By Meerza Solyman Zingall!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="corrected-news" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Corrected News</h3>
				<p>
					<span>’Twas a maiden lady (the newspapers say)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pious and prim and a bit gone-gray.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She slept like an angel, holy and white,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Till ten o’ the clock in the shank o’ the night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(When men and other wild animals prey)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then she cried in the viewless gloom:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“There’s a man in the room, a man in the room!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And this maiden lady (they make it appear)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Leapt out of the window, five fathom sheer!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Alas, that lying is such a sin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When newspaper men need bread and gin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And none can be had for less than a lie!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the maiden lady a bit gone-gray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Saw the man in the room from across the way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And leapt, not out of the window but in⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ten fathoms sheer, as I hope to die!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-explanation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Explanation</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“I never yet exactly could determine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just how it is that the judicial ermine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is kept so safely from predacious vermin.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“It is not so, my friend: though in a garret</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis kept in camphor, and you often air it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The vermin will get into it and wear it.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="justice-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Justice</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Jack Doe met Dick Roe, whose wife he loved,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And said: “I will get the best of him.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So pulling a knife from his boot, he shoved</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It up to the hilt in the breast of him.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then he moved that weapon forth and back,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Enlarging the hole he had made with it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till the smoking liver fell out, and Jack</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Merrily, merrily played with it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then he reached within and he seized the slack</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the lesser bowel, and, traveling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hither and thither, looked idly back</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On that small intestine, raveling.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The wretched Richard, with many a grin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Laid on with exceeding suavity,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Curled up and died, and they ran John in</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And charged him with sins of gravity.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The case was tried and a verdict found:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The jury, with great humanity,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Acquitted the prisoner on the ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of extemporary insanity.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="mr-finks-debating-donkey" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title"><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Fink’s Debating Donkey</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Of a person known as Peters I will humbly crave your leave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An unusual adventure into narrative to weave⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span><abbr>Mr.</abbr> William Perry Peters, of the town of Muscatel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A public educator and an orator as well.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Peters had a weakness which, ’tis painful to relate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was a strong predisposition to the pleasures of debate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He would foster disputation wheresoever he might be;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In polygonal contention none so happy was as he.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas observable, however, that the exercises ran</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into monologue by Peters, that rhetorical young man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the Muscatelian rustics who assisted at the show,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By involuntary silence testified their overthrow⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Peters, all unheedful of their silence and their grief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still effacing every vestige of erroneous belief.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, he was a sore affliction to all heretics so bold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As to entertain opinions that he didn’t care to hold.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One day⁠—’twas in pursuance of a pedagogic plan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the mental elevation of Uncultivated Man⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Peters, to his pupils, in dismissing them, explained</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the Friday evening following (unless, indeed, it rained)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would be signalized by holding in the schoolhouse a debate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Free to all who their opinions might desire to ventilate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the question, “Which is better, as a serviceable gift,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Speech or hearing, from barbarity the human mind to lift?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pupils told their fathers, who, forehanded always, met</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the barroom to discuss it every evening, dry or wet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They argued it and argued it and spat upon the stove,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the non-committal “barkeep” on their differences throve.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I state it as a maxim in a loosish kind of way:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’ll have the more to back your word the less you have to say.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Public interest was lively, but one Ebenezer Fink</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the Rancho del Jackrabbit, only seemed to sit and think.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>On the memorable evening all the men of Muscatel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came to listen to the logic and the eloquence as well⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All but William Perry Peters, whose attendance there, I fear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was to wreak his ready rhetoric upon the public ear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And prove (whichever side he took) that hearing wouldn’t lift</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The human mind as ably as the other, greater gift.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The judges being chosen and the disputants enrolled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The question he proceeded <i xml:lang="la">in extenso</i> to unfold:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“<em>Resolved</em>⁠—The sense of hearing lifts the mind up out of reach</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the fogs of error better than the faculty of speech.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This simple proposition he expounded, word by word,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Until they best understood it who least perfectly had heard.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even the judges comprehended as he ventured to explain⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The impact of a spit-ball admonishing in vain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beginning at a period before Creation’s morn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He had reached the bounds of tolerance and Adam yet unborn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As down the early centuries of pre-historic time</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He tracked important principles and quoted striking rhyme,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Whisky Bill, prosaic soul! proclaiming him a jay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had risen and like an earthquake, “reeled unheededly away,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a late lamented cat, when opportunity should serve,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was preparing to embark upon her parabolic curve,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A noise arose outside⁠—the door was opened with a bang</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And old Ebenezer Fink was heard ejaculating “G’lang!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Straight into that assembly gravely marched without a wink</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An ancient ass⁠—the property it was of <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Fink.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its ears depressed and beating time to its infestive tread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Silent through silence moved amain that stately quadruped!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It stopped before the orator, and in the lamplight thrown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon its tail they saw that member weighted with a stone.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then spake old Ebenezer: “Gents, I heern o’ this debate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On w’ether v’ice or y’ears is best the mind to elevate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now ’yer’s a bird ken throw some light uponto that tough theme:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He has ’em both, I’m free to say, oncommonly extreme.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He wa’n’t invited for to speak, but he will not refuse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(If t’other gentleman ken wait) to exposay his views.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ere merriment or anger o’er amazement could prevail;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He cut the string that held the stone on that canary’s tail.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Freed from the weight, that member made a gesture of delight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then rose until its rigid length was horizontal quite.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With lifted head and level ears along his withers laid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Jack sighed, refilled his lungs and then⁠—to put it mildly⁠—brayed!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He brayed until the stones were stirred in circumjacent hills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sleeping women rose and fled, in divers kinds of frills.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis said that awful bugle-blast⁠—to make the story brief⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wafted William Perry Peters through the window, like a leaf!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Such is the tale. If anything additional occurred</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis not set down, though, truly, I remember to have heard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That a gentleman named Peters, now residing at Soquel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A considerable distance from the town of Muscatel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is opposed to education, and to rhetoric, as well.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-my-laundress" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To My Laundress</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Saponacea, wert thou not so fair</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I’d curse thee for thy multitude of sins⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For sending home my clothes all full of pins⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A shirt occasionally that’s a snare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a delusion, got, the Lord knows where,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Lord knows why⁠—a sock whose outs and ins</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">None know, nor where it ends nor where begins,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fewer cuffs than ought to be my share.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But when I mark thy lilies how they grow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the red roses of thy ripening charms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">I bless the lovelight in thy dark eyes dreaming.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll never pay thee, but I’d gladly go</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Into the magic circle of thine arms,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Supple and fragrant from repeated steaming.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="fame-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Fame</h3>
				<p>
					<span>One thousand years I slept beneath the sod,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My sleep in 1901 beginning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, by the action of some scurvy god</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who happened then to recollect my sinning,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I was revived and given another inning.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On breaking from my grave I saw a crowd⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A formless multitude of men and women,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gathered about a ruin. Clamors loud</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I heard, and curses deep enough to swim in;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And, pointing at me, one said: “Let’s put <em>him</em> in.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then each turned on me with an evil look,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As in my ragged shroud I stood and shook.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Nay, good Posterity,” I cried, “forbear!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If that’s a jail I fain would be remaining</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Outside, for truly I should little care</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To catch my death of cold. I’m just regaining</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The life lost long ago by my disdaining</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To take precautions against draughts like those</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That, haply, penetrate that cracked and splitting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old structure.” Then an aged wight arose</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From a chair of state in which he had been sitting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And with preliminary coughing, spitting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wheezing, said: “ ’Tis not a jail, we’re sure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whate’er it may have been when it was newer.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“ ’Twas found two centuries ago, o’ergrown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With brush and ivy, all undoored, ungated;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in restoring it we found a stone</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Set here and there in the dilapidated</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And crumbling frieze, inscribed, in antiquated</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Big characters, with certain uncouth names,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which we conclude were borne of old by awful</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rapscallions guilty of all sinful games⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Vagrants engaged in purposes unlawful,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And orators less sensible than jawful.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So each ten years we add to the long row</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A name, the most unworthy that we know.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“But why,” I asked, “put <em>me</em> in?” He replied:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“You look it”⁠—and the judgment pained me greatly;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Right gladly would I then and there have died,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But that I’d risen from the grave so lately.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But on examining that solemn, stately</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old ruin I remarked: “My friend, you err⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The truth of this is just what I expected.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This building in its time made quite a stir.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I lived (was famous, too) when ’twas erected.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The names here first inscribed were much respected.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This is the Hall of Fame, or I’m a stork,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And this goat pasture once was called New York.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="omnes-vanitas" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Omnes Vanitas</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Alas for ambition’s possessor!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Alas for the famous and proud!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Isle of Manhattan’s best dresser</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is wearing a hand-me-down shroud.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The world has forgotten his glory;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The wagoner sings on his wain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Chauncey Depew tells a story,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And jackasses laugh in the lane.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-new-ulalume" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The New “Ulalume”</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The skies they were ashen and sober,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The leaves they were crisped and sere⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">”   ”     ”    ” withering ”   ”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was night in the lonesome October</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of my most immemorial year;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was hard by the dim lake of Auber⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>”  ” down ”  ” dark tarn ”  ”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the   misty   mid  region of Weir⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">”  ” ghoul-haunted woodland ”  ”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="consolation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Consolation</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Little’s the good to sit and grieve</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because the serpent tempted Eve.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Better to wipe your eyes and take</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A club and go out and kill a snake.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What do you gain by cursing Nick</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For playing her such a scurvy trick?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Better go out and some villain find</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who serves the devil, and beat him blind.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But if you prefer, as I suspect,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To philosophize, why, then, reflect:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If the cunning rascal upon the limb</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hadn’t tempted her she’d have tempted him.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="fate" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Fate</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Alas, alas, for the tourist’s guide!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He turned from the beaten trail aside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wandered bewildered, lay down and died.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O grim is the Irony of Fate:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It switches the man of low estate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And loosens the dogs upon the great.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It lights the fireman to roast the cook;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fisherman squirms upon the hook,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the flirt is slain with a tender look.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The undertaker it overtakes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It saddles the cavalier, and makes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The haughtiest butcher into steaks.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Assist me, gods, to balk the decree!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nothing I’ll do and nothing I’ll be,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In order that nothing be done to me.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="philosopher-bimm" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Philosopher Bimm</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Republicans think Jonas Bimm</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A Democrat gone mad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Democrats consider him</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Republican and bad.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Tough reviles him as a Dude</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And gives it him right hot;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Dude condemns his crassitude</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And calls him <i xml:lang="fr">sans culottes.</i></span>
					<br/>
					<span>Derided as an Anglophile</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By Anglophobes, forsooth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As Anglophobe he feels, the while,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Anglophilic tooth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Churchman calls him Atheist;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Atheists, rough-shod,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have ridden o’er him long and hissed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“The wretch believes in God!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Saints whom clergymen we call</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Would kill him if they could;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Sinners (scientists and all)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Complain that he is good.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All men deplore the difference</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Between themselves and him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all devise expedients</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For paining Jonas Bimm.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I too, with wild demoniac glee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Would put out both his eyes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Bimm appears to me</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Insufferably wise!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="reminded" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Reminded</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Beneath my window twilight made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Familiar mysteries of shade.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faint voices from the darkening down</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were calling vaguely to the town.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Intent upon a low, far gleam</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That burned upon the world’s extreme,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I sat, with short reprieve from grief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And turned the volume, leaf by leaf,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wherein a hand, long dead, had wrought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A million miracles of thought.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My fingers carelessly unclung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lettered pages, and among</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Them wandered witless, nor divined</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wealth in which, poor fools, they mined.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soul that should have led their quest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was dreaming in the level west,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where a tall tower, stark and still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Uplifted on a distant hill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stood lone and passionless to claim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its guardian star’s returning flame.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I know not how my dream was broke,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But suddenly my spirit woke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Filled with a foolish fear to look</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the hand that clove the book,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Significantly pointing; next</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I bent attentive to the text,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And read⁠—and as I read grew old⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mindless words: “Poor Tom’s a-cold!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah me! to what a subtle touch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The brimming cup resigns its clutch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the wine. Dear God, is ’t writ</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That hearts their overburden bear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of bitterness though thou permit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pranks of Chance, alurk in nooks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And striking coward blows from books,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dead hands reaching everywhere?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="salvini-in-america" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Salvini in America</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Come, gentlemen⁠—your gold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thanks: welcome to the show.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hear a story told</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In words you do not know.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now, great Salvini, rise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And thunder through your tears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Aha! friends, let your eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Interpret to your ears.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Gods! ’tis a goodly game.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Observe his stride⁠—how grand!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When legs like his declaim</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who can misunderstand?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>See how that arm goes round.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It says, as plain as day:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I love,” “The lost is found,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Well met, sir,” or, “Away!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And mark the drawing down</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of brows. How accurate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The language of that frown:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Pain, gentlemen⁠—or hate.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Those of the critic trade</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Swear it is all as clear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if his tongue were made</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To fit an English ear.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hear that Italian phrase!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Greek to your sense, ’tis true;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But shrug, expression, gaze⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Well, they are Grecian too.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But it is Art! God wot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Its tongue to all is known.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faith! he to whom ’twere not</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Would better hold his own.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Shakespeare says act and word</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Must match together true.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From what you’ve seen and heard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How can you doubt they do?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Enchanting drama! Mark</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The crowd “from pit to dome,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One box alone is dark⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The prompter stays at home.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Stupendous artist! You</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are lord of joy and woe:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We thrill if you say “Boo,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And thrill if you say “Bo.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="another-way" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Another Way</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I lay in silence, dead. A woman came</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And laid a rose upon my breast and said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“May God be merciful.” She spoke my name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And added: “It is strange to think him dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“He loved me well enough, but ’twas his way</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To speak it lightly.” Then, beneath her breath:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Besides”⁠—I knew what further she would say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But then a footfall broke my dream of death.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To-day the words are mine. I lay the rose</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Upon her breast, and speak her name and deem</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It strange indeed that she is dead. God knows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I had more pleasure in the other dream.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="art-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Art</h3>
				<p>
					<span>For Gladstone’s portrait five thousand pounds</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Were paid, ’tis said, to Sir John Millais.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I cannot help thinking that such fine pay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Transcended reason’s uttermost bounds.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For it seems to me uncommonly queer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That a painted British stateman’s price</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Exceeds the established value thrice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of a living statesman over here.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-one-across-the-way" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To One Across the Way</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When at your window radiant you’ve stood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I’ve sometimes thought⁠—forgive me if I’ve erred⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That some slight thought of me perhaps has stirred</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your heart to beat less gently than it should.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know you beautiful; that you are good</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I hope⁠—or fear⁠—I cannot choose the word,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor rightly suit it to the thought. I’ve heard</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reason at love’s dictation never could.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blindly to this dilemma so I grope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As one whose every pathway has a snare:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">If you are minded in the saintly fashion</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of your pure face my passion’s without hope;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If not, alas! I equally despair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">For what to me were hope without the passion?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-debtor-abroad" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To a Debtor Abroad</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Grief for an absent lover, husband, friend,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is barely felt before it comes to end:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A score of early consolations serve</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To modify its mouth’s dejected curve.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But woes of creditors when debtors flee</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forever swell the separating sea.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When standing on an alien shore you mark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The steady course of some intrepid bark,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How sweet to think a tear for you abides,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not all unuseful, in the wave she rides!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That sighs for you commingle in the gale</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneficently bellying her sail!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="genesis" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Genesis</h3>
				<p>
					<span>God said: “Let there be Man,” and from the clay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Adam came forth and, thoughtful, walked away.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The matrix whence his body was obtained,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An empty, man-shaped cavity, remained</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All unregarded from that early time</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till in a recent storm it filled with slime.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now Satan, envying the Master’s power</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make the meat himself could but devour,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Strolled to the place and, standing by the pool,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exerted all his will to make a fool.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A miracle!⁠—from out that ancient hole</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rose Morehouse, lacking nothing but a soul.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“To give him that I’ve not the power divine,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said Satan, sadly, “but I’ll lend him mine.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He breathed it into him, a vapor black,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to this day has never got it back.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="liberty" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Liberty</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“ ‘Let there be Liberty!’ God said, and, lo!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The red skies all were luminous. The glow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Struck first Columbia’s kindling mountain peaks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One hundred and eleven years ago!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So sang a patriot whom once I saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Descending Bunker’s holy hill. With awe</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I noted that he shone with sacred light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like Moses with the tables of the Law.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>One hundred and eleven years? O small</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And paltry period compared with all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The tide of centuries that flowed and ebbed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To etch Yosemite’s divided wall!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, Liberty, they sing you always young</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose harps are in your adoration strung</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(Each swears you are his countrywoman, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And speak no language but his mother tongue).</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And truly, lass, although with shout and horn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Man has all-hailed you from creation’s morn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I cannot think you old⁠—I think, indeed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You are by twenty centuries unborn.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-passing-of-shepherd" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Passing of Shepherd</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The sullen church-bell’s intermittent moan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The dirge’s melancholy monotone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The measured march, the drooping flags, attest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A great man’s progress to his place of rest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Along broad avenues himself decreed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To serve his fellow men’s disputed need⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Past parks he raped away from robbers’ thrift</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gave to poverty, wherein to lift</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its voice to curse the giver and the gift⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Past noble structures that he reared for men</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To meet in and revile him, tongue and pen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Draws the long retinue of death to show</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fit credentials of a proper woe.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Boss” Shepherd, you are dead. Your hand no more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Throws largess to the mobs that ramp and roar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For blood of benefactors who disdain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their purity of purpose to explain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their righteous motive and their scorn of gain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your period of dream⁠—’twas but a breath⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is closed in the indifference of death.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sealed in your silences, to you alike</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If hands are lifted to applaud or strike.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No more to your dull, inattentive ear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Praise of to-day than curse of yesteryear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the same lips the honied phrases fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That still are bitter from cascades of gall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We note the shame; you in your depth of dark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The red-writ testimony cannot mark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On every honest cheek; your senses all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Locked, <i xml:lang="es">incommunicado</i>, in your pall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Know not who sit and blush, who stand and bawl.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Seven Grecian cities claim great Homer dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through which the living Homer begged his bread.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So sang, as if the thought had been his own,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An unknown bard, improving on a known.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Neglected genius!”⁠—that is sad indeed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But malice better would ignore than heed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Shepherd’s soul, we rightly may suspect,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prayed often for the mercy of neglect</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When hardly did he dare to leave his door</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without a guard behind him and before</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To save him from the gentlemen that now</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In cheap and easy reparation bow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their corrigible heads above his corse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To counterfeit a grief that’s half remorse.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The pageant passes and the exile sleeps,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And well his tongue the solemn secret keeps</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the great peace he found afar, until,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death’s writ of extradition to fulfill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They brought him, helpless, from that friendly zone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be a show and pastime in his own⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A final opportunity to those</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who fling with equal aim the stone and rose;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That at the living till his soul is freed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This at the body to conceal the deed!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lone on his hill he’s lying to await</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What added honors may befit his state⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The monument, the statue, or the arch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Where knaves may come to weep and dupes to march)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Builded by clowns to brutalize the scenes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His genius beautified. To get the means,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His newly good traducers all are dunned</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For contributions to the conscience fund.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If each subscribe (and pay) one cent ’twill rear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A structure taller than their tallest ear.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Washington, May 4, 1903.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-maude" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To Maude</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Not as two errant spheres together grind</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With monstrous ruin in the vast of space,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Destruction born of that malign embrace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their hapless peoples all to death consigned⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not so when our intangible worlds of mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Even mine and yours, each with its spirit race</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of beings shadowy in form and face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall drift together on some blessed wind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No, in that marriage of gloom and light</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All miracles of beauty shall be wrought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Attesting a diviner faith than man’s;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For all my sad-eyed daughters of the night</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shall smile on your sweet seraphim of thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Nor any jealous god forbid the banns.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-birth-of-virtue" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Birth of Virtue</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When, long ago, the young world circling flew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through wider reaches of a richer blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>New-eyed, the men and maids saw, manifest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The thoughts untold in one another’s breast⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each wish displayed, and every passion learned;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A look revealed them as a look discerned.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But sating Time with clouds o’ercast their eyes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Desire was hidden, and the lips framed lies.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A goddess then, emerging from the dust,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fair Virtue rose, the daughter of Distrust.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="stoneman-in-heaven" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Stoneman in Heaven</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Seraphs came to Christ, and said: “Behold!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The man, presumptuous and overbold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who boasted that his mercy could excel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thine own, is dead and on his way to Hell.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Gravely the Saviour asked: “What did he do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To make his impious assertion true?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“He was a Governor, releasing all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The vilest felons ever held in thrall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No other mortal, since the dawn of time,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has ever pardoned such a mass of crime!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Christ smiled benignly on the Seraphim:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Yet I am victor, for I pardon <em>him</em>.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-scurril-press" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Scurril Press</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Tom Jonesmith</b> <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">loquitur</i>: I’ve slept right through</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The night⁠—a rather clever thing to do.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How soundly women sleep <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">looks at his wife</i>.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They’re all alike. The sweetest thing in life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is woman when she lies with folded tongue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its toil completed and its day-song sung.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Thump!</i> That’s the morning paper. What a bore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That it should be delivered at the door.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There ought to be some expeditious way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To get it <em>to</em> one. By this long delay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fizz gets off the news <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">a rap is heard</i>.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That’s Jane, the housemaid; she’s an early bird;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She’s brought it to the bedroom door, good soul.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Gets up and takes it in.</i> Upon the whole</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The system’s not so bad a one. What’s here?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gad! if they’ve not got after⁠—listen dear</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">To sleeping wife</i>⁠—young Gastrotheos! Well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If Freedom shrieked when Kosciusko fell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She’ll shriek again⁠—with laughter⁠—seeing how</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They treated <abbr>Gast.</abbr> with her. Yet I’ll allow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis right if he goes dining at The Pup</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Thing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="right"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Wife</b> <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">briskly, waking up</i>:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With her? The hussy! Yes, it serves him right.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jonesmith</b> <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">continuing to “seek the light”</i>:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What’s this about old Impycu? That’s good!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grip⁠—that’s the funny man⁠—says Impy should</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be used as a decoy in shooting tramps.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I knew old Impy when he had the “stamps”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To buy us all out, and he wasn’t then</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So bad a chap to have about. Grip’s pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is just a tickler!⁠—and the world, no doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is better with it than it was without.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What? thirteen ladies⁠—Jumping Jove! we know</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Them nearly all!⁠—who gamble at a low</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And very shocking game of cards called “draw”!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O cracky, how they’ll squirm! ha-ha! haw-haw!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let’s see what else <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">wife snores</i>. Well, I’ll be blest!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A woman doesn’t understand a jest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hello! What, what? the scurvy wretch proceeds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To take a fling at <em>me</em>, condemn him! <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">reads</i>:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>Tom Jonesmith</em>⁠—my name’s Thomas, vulgar cad!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>Of the new Shavings Bank</em>⁠—the man’s gone mad!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That’s libelous; I’ll have him up for that⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>Has had his corns cut</em>. Devil take the rat!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What business is’t of his, I’d like to know?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He didn’t have to cut them. Gods! what low</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And scurril things our papers have become!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You skim their contents and you get but scum.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here, Mary, <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">waking wife</i> I’ve been attacked</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In this vile sheet. By Jove, it is a fact!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Wife</b> <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">reading it</i>: How wicked! Who do you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Suppose ’twas wrote it?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="right"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Jonesmith</b>: Who? why, who</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But Grip, the so-called funny man⁠—he wrote</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Me up because I’d not discount his note.</span>
					<br/>
					<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">
						<span>Blushes like sunset at the hideous lie⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>He’ll think of one that’s better by and by⁠—</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Throws down the paper on the floor, and treads</span>
						<br/>
						<span>A lively measure on it⁠—kicks the shreds</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And patches all about the room, and still</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Performs his jig with unabated will.</span>
					</i>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1"><b epub:type="z3998:persona">Wife</b> <i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">warbling sweetly, like an Elfland horn</i>:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear, do be careful of that second corn.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="stanley" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Stanley</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Noting some great man’s composition vile:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A head of wisdom and a heart of guile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A will to conquer and a soul to dare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Joined to the manners of a dancing bear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fools unaccustomed to the wide survey</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of various Nature’s compensating sway,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Untaught to separate the wheat and chaff,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To praise the one and at the other laugh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yearn all in vain and impotently seek</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some flawless hero upon whom to wreak</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sycophantic worship of the weak.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Not so the wise, from superstition free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who find small pleasure in the bended knee;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quick to discriminate ’twixt good and bad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And willing in the king to find the cad⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No reason seen why genius and conceit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The power to dazzle and the will to cheat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The love of daring and the love of gin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should not dwell, peaceful, in a single skin.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To such, great Stanley, you’re a hero still,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Despite your cradling in a tub for swill.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your peasant manners can’t efface the mark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of light you drew across the Land of Dark.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In you the extremes of character are wed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To serve the quick and villify the dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hero and clown! O, man of many sides,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Muse of Truth adores you and derides,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sheds, impartial, the revealing ray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon your head of gold and feet of clay.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="one-of-the-unfair-sex" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">One of the Unfair Sex</h3>
				<p>
					<span>She stood at the ticket-seller’s</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Serenely removing her glove,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While hundreds of strugglers and yellers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And some that were good at a shove,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Were clustered behind her like bats in</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">a cave and dissembling their love.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>At night she still stood at that window</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Endeavoring her money to reach;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The crowds in her rear, how they sinned⁠—O,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How dreadfully sinned in their speech!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ten miles either way they extended</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">their lines, the historians teach.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She stands there to-day⁠—legislation</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Has failed to remove her. The trains</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No longer pull up at that station;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And over the ghastly remains</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the army that waited and died of old</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">age fall the snows and the rains.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-lords-prayer-on-a-coin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Lord’s Prayer on a Coin</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Upon this quarter-eagle’s leveled face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Lord’s Prayer, legibly inscribed, I trace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Our Father which”⁠—the pronoun there is funny,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shows the scribe to have addressed the money⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Which art in Heaven”⁠—an error this, no doubt:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The preposition should be stricken out.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Needless to quote; I only have designed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To praise the frankness of the pious mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which thought it natural and right to join,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With rare significancy, prayer and coin.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-absurdum" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Absurdum</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Congressman Rixey, you’re a statesman⁠—you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Yourself will hardly say that you are not;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And yet I know not what you hope to do</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For those Confederates whose luckless lot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is to have lived through storms of Yankee shot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To this our day. They draw their breath, indeed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But from the Government no cent of what</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So admirably serves your nobler need.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You work for it? Why, that all cavilers concede.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You’d call these “rebels” to the Soldiers’ Homes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On equal terms with persons whom they fought!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whereat the “truly loyal” statesman foams</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At the loud mouth of him. But that is naught⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He foams, not for he must, but for he ought:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the Poll-patriot’s emotions flow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By taking (with much else of value) thought.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His feelings, if he have them, never blow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His cooling coal of anger to a brighter glow.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Well, well, sir, even the Devil may be right</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Through ignorance or accident. ’Tis said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We’re sometimes dazzled with too great a light.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In which the blind, with customary tread</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(And by a small, unblinking puppy led)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Walk prosperous courses to appointed goals.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And so your critics, though without a head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Among them⁠—eyeless, therefore, as the moles⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May wiser be than you, who damn their little souls!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If of two aged Southern gentlemen</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of equal need and worth, the one that tried</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To cook the country’s goose⁠—or say its hen⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Be blest with all the cheer we can provide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And which to t’other sternly is denied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because he didn’t, it will seem right queer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The gods are logical and may deride.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Respect the Southern veteran, but fear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The laughter of Olympus sounding loud and clear!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="saith-the-czar" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Saith the Czar</h3>
				<p>
					<span>My people come to me and make their moan:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“We starve, your Majesty⁠—give us a stone.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That’s flat rebellion!⁠—how the devil dare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They starve right in my capital? Their prayer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For something in their bellies I will meet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With that which I’ll not trouble them to eat.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They ask for greater freedom. No, indeed⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What happened to my ancestor who freed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The serfs? His grateful subjects duly flung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Something that spoke to him without a tongue.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So he was sacrificed for Freedom’s sake,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gathered to his fathers with a rake.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I from Autocracy my people free?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ah, would to Heaven they could deliver me!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-royal-jester" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Royal Jester</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Once on a time, so ancient poets sing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There reigned in Godknowswhere a certain king.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So great a monarch ne’er before was seen:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was a hero, even to his queen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In whose respect he held so high a place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That none was higher⁠—nay, not even the ace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was so just his Parliament declared</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those subjects happy whom his laws had spared;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So wise that none of the debating throng</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had ever lived to prove him in the wrong;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So good that Crime his anger never feared,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Beauty boldly plucked him by the beard;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So brave that if his army got a beating</span>
					<br/>
					<span>None dared to face him when he was retreating.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>This monarch kept a Fool to make his mirth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And loved him tenderly despite his worth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prompted by what caprice I cannot say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He called the Fool before the throne one day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And to that jester seriously said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I’ll abdicate, and you shall reign instead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While I, attired in motley, will make sport</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To entertain your Majesty and Court.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Twas done and the Fool governed. He decreed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The time of harvest and the time of seed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ordered the rains and made the weather clear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And had a famine every second year;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Altered the calendar to suit his freak,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ordaining six whole holidays a week;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Religious creeds and sacred books prepared;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made war when angry and made peace when scared.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>New taxes he inspired; new laws he made;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Drowned those who broke them, who observed them, flayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In short, he ruled so well that all who’d not</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Been starved, decapitated, hanged or shot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Made the whole country with his praises ring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Declaring he was every inch a king;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the High Priest averred ’twas very odd</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If one so competent were not a god.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Meantime, his master, now in motley clad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wore such a visage, woeful, wan and sad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That some condoled with him as with a brother</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who, having lost a wife, had got another.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Others, mistaking his profession, often</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Approached him to be measured for a coffin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For years this highborn jester never broke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The silence⁠—he was pondering a joke.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At last, one day, in cap-and-bells arrayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He strode into the Council and displayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A long, bright smile, that glittered in the gloom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like a gilt epithet within a tomb.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Posing his bauble like a leader’s staff,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To give the signal when (and why) to laugh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He brought it down with peremptory stroke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And simultaneously cracked his joke!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I can’t repeat it, friends. I ne’er could school</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Myself to quote from any other fool:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A jest, if it were worse than mine, would start</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My tears; if better, it would break my heart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So, if you please, I’ll hold you but to state</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That royal Jester’s melancholy fate.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The insulted nation, so the story goes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rose as one man⁠—the very dead arose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Springing indignant from the riven tomb,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And babes unborn leapt swearing from the womb!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All to the Council Chamber clamoring went,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By rage distracted and on vengeance bent.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In that vast hall, in due disorder laid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tools of legislation were displayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the wild populace, its wrath to sate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seized them and heaved them at the Jester’s pate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mountains of writing paper; pools and seas</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of ink, awaiting, to become decrees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Royal approval⁠—and the same in stacks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lay ready for attachment, backed with wax;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pens to make laws, erasers to amend them;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With mucilage convenient to extend them;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scissors for limiting their application,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And acids to repeal all legislation⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These, flung as missiles till the air was dense,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were most offensive weapons of offense,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And by their aid the Fool was nigh destroyed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They ne’er had been so harmlessly employed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whelmed underneath a load of legal cap,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His mouth egurgitating ink on tap,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His eyelids mucilaginously sealed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His fertile head by scissors made to yield</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Abundant harvestage of ears, his pelt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In every wrinkle and on every welt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quickset with pencil-points from feet to gills</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thickly studded with a pride of quills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The royal Jester in the dreadful strife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was made (in short) an editor for life!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>An idle tale, and yet a moral lurks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In this as plainly as in greater works.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I shall not give it birth: one moral here</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would die of loneliness within a year.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-career-in-letters" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Career in Letters</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When Liberverm resigned the chair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of This or That in college, where</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For two decades he’d gorged his brain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With more than it could well contain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In order to relieve the stress</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He took to writing for the press.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then Pondronummus said, “I’ll help</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This mine of talent to devel’p;”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And straightway bought with coin and credit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Thundergust</i> for him to edit.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The great man seized the pen and ink</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wrote so hard he couldn’t think;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ideas grew beneath his fist</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And flew like falcons from his wrist.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His pen shot sparks all kinds of ways</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till all the rivers were ablaze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And where the coruscations fell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men uttered words I dare not spell.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Eftsoons with corrugated brow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wet towels bound about his pow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Locked legs and failing appetite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He thought so hard he couldn’t write.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His soaring fancies, chickenwise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came home to roost and wouldn’t rise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With dimmer light and milder heat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His goose-quill staggered o’er the sheet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then dragged, then stopped; the finish came⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He couldn’t even write his name.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Thundergust</i> in three short weeks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had risen, roared, and split its cheeks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said Pondronummus, “How unjust!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The storm I raised has laid my dust!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When, Moneybagger, you have aught</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Invested in a vein of thought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be sure you’ve purchased not, instead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That salted claim, a bookworm’s head.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-following-pair" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Following Pair</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O very remarkable mortal,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What food is engaging your jaws</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And staining with amber their portal?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“It’s ’baccy I chaws.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And why do you sway in your walking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To right and left many degrees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hitch up your trousers when talking?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“I follers the seas.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Great indolent shark in the rollers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is “ ’baccy,” too, one of your faults?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You, too, display maculate molars.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“I dines upon salts.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Strange diet!⁠—intestinal pain it</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is commonly given to nip.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And how can you ever obtain it?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“I follers the ship.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="political-economy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Political Economy</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“I beg you to note,” said a Man to a Goose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As he plucked from her bosom the plumage all loose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“That pillows and cushions of feathers and beds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As warm as maids’ hearts and as soft as their heads,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Increase of life’s comforts the general sum⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which raises the standard of living.” “Come, come,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Goose said, impatiently, “tell me or cease,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How that is of any advantage to geese.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“What, what!” said the man⁠—“you are very obtuse!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Consumption no profit to those who produce?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No good to accrue to Supply from a grand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Progressive expansion, all round, of Demand?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Luxurious habits no benefit bring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To those who purvey the luxurious thing?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Consider, I pray you, my friend, how the growth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of luxury promises⁠—” “Promises,” quoth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sufferer, “what?⁠—to what course is it pledged</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To pay me for being so often defledged?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Accustomed”⁠—this notion the plucker expressed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As he ripped out a handful of down from her breast⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“To one kind of luxury, people soon yearn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For others and ever for others in turn;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the man who to-night on your feathers will rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His mutton or bacon or beef to digest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His hunger to-morrow will wish to assuage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By dining on goose with a dressing of sage.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-unpardonable-sin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Unpardonable Sin</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I reckon that ye never knew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That dandy slugger, Tom Carew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He had a touch as light an’ free</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As that of any honey-bee;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But where it lit there wasn’t much</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To jestify another touch.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, what a Sunday-school it was</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To watch him puttin’ up his paws</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ roominate upon their heft⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Particular his holy left!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tom was my style⁠—that’s all I say;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some others may be equal gay.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What’s come of him? Dunno, I’m sure⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He’s dead⁠—which make his fate obscure.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I only started in to clear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One vital p’int in his career,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which is to say⁠—afore he died</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He soiled his erming mighty snide.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ye see he took to politics</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And learnt them statesmen-fellers’ tricks;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pulled wires, wore stovepipe hats, used scent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just like he was the President;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Went to the Legislator; spoke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Right out agin the British yoke⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that was right. He let his hair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grow long to qualify for Mayor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ once or twice he poked his snoot</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Congress like a low galoot!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It had to come⁠—no gent can hope</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To wrastle God agin the rope.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tom went from bad to wuss. Being dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I s’pose it oughtn’t to be said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For sech inikities as flow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From politics ain’t fit to know;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, if you think it’s actin’ white</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To tell it⁠—Thomas throwed a fight!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="industrial-discontent" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Industrial Discontent</h3>
				<p>
					<span>As time rolled on the whole world came to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A desolation and a darksome curse;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And some one said: “The changes that you see</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the fair frame of things, from bad to worse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are wrought by strikes. The sun withdrew his glimmer</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Because the moon assisted with her shimmer.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Then, when poor Luna, straining very hard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Doubled her light to serve a darkling world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He called her ‘scab,’ and meanly would retard</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Her rising: and at last the villain hurled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A heavy beam which knocked her o’er the Lion</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into the nebula of great O’Ryan.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“The planets all had struck some time before,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Demanding what they said were equal rights:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some pointing out that others had far more</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That a fair dividend of satellites.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So all went out⁠—though those the best provided,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If they had dared, would rather have abided.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“The stars struck too⁠—I think it was because</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The comets had more liberty than they,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And were not bound by any hampering laws,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">While <em>they</em> were fixed; and there are those who say</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The comets’ tresses nettled poor Altair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An aged orb that hasn’t any hair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“The earth’s the only one that isn’t in</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The movement⁠—I suppose because she’s watched</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With horror and disgust how her fair skin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Her pranking parasites have fouled and blotched</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With blood and grease in every labor riot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When seeing any purse or throat to fly at.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="tempora-mutantur" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title" xml:lang="la">Tempora Mutantur</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“The world is dull,” I cried in my despair:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Its myths and fables are no longer fair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Roll back thy centuries, O Father Time.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To Greece transport me in her golden prime.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Give back the beautiful old Gods again⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sportive Nymphs, the Dryad’s jocund train,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Pan piping on his reeds, the Naiades,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Sirens singing by the sleepy seas.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Nay, show me but a Gorgon and I’ll dare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To lift mine eyes to her peculiar hair</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“(The fatal horrors of her snaky pate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That stiffen men into a stony state)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“And die⁠—erecting, as my soul goes hence,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A statue of myself, without expense.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Straight as I spoke I heard the voice of Fate:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Look up, my lad, the Gorgon sisters wait.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Raising my eyes, I saw Medusa stand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stheno, Euryale, on either hand.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I gazed unpetrified and unappalled⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The girls had aged and were entirely bald!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-false-alarm" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A False Alarm</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When Gertrude Atherton pronounced the ladies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of fair Manhattan hideous as Hades⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In eyes no splendor, and in cheeks no roses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, O ye godlings! rudimentary noses⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To pass a bad half-hour before their glasses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Straight to their dressing-rooms ran dames and lasses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who, still dissenting from her curst appraisal.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grew more pugnacious, but not less pugnasal.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ladies, be calm: there’s nothing to distress you⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Sacred Englishman will rise and bless you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No noses⁠—none to speak of⁠—is alarming,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that you can’t speak through them⁠—that is charming!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="contentment" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Contentment</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Sleep fell upon my senses and I dreamed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Long years had circled since my life had fled.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The world was different, and all things seemed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Remote and strange, like noises to the dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And one great Voice there was; and something said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Posterity is speaking⁠—rightly deemed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Infallible:” and so I gave attention,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hoping Posterity my name would mention.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Illustrious Spirit,” said the Voice, “appear!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">While we confirm eternally thy fame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before our dread tribunal answer, here,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Why do no statues celebrate thy name,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No monuments thy services proclaim?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why did not thy contemporaries rear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To thee some schoolhouse or memorial college?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It looks almighty queer, you must acknowledge.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Up spake I hotly: “That is where you err!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But some one thundered in my ear: “You shan’t</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be interrupting these proceedings, sir;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The question was addressed to General Grant.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some other things were spoken which I can’t</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Distinctly now recall, but I infer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By certain flushings of my cheeks and forehead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Posterity’s environment is torrid.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then heard I (this was in a dream, remark)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Another Voice, clear, comfortable, strong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As Grant’s great shade, replying from the dark,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Said in a tone that rang the earth along,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And thrilled the senses of the Judges’ throng:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I’d rather you would question why, in park</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And street, my monuments were not erected</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than why they were.” Then, waking, I reflected.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1885">1885</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="constancy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Constancy</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I had a dream. A throng of people sped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hard after something that before them fled⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A ball that leapt and bounded. I pursued,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kicking, like all the rest, at Bryan’s head.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, God, it was indeed a ghastly play!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That noble head⁠—its locks in disarray</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Streaming like feathers of a shuttlecock⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Urged with resounding buffets on its way.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ever the foremost in the chase accurst</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ran Two who in his life, too, had been first</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Among his followers. “Behold,” I cried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Those twins of constancy, the Devil and Hearst!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Smitten in spirit with a sudden shame.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And from intemperate exertion lame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I sprang, and skyward with a parting kick</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hoisted that mellow bulb, and left the game.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-new-enoch-arden" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The New Enoch Arden</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Enoch Arden was an able</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Seaman; hear of his mishap⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not in wild mendacious fable,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As ’twas told by t’other chap;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>For I hold it is a youthful</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Indiscretion to tell lies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the writer that is truthful</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Has the reader that is wise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Enoch Arden, able seaman,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On an isle was cast away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And before he was a freeman</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Time had touched him up with gray.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Long he searched the fair horizon,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Seated on a mountain top;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vessel ne’er he set his eyes on</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That would undertake to stop.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Seeing that his sight was growing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dim and dimmer, day by day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enoch said he must be going.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So he rose and went away⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Went away and so continued</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Till he lost his lonely isle:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Arden was so sinewed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He could row for many a mile.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Compass he had not, nor sextant,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To direct him o’er the sea:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere ’twas known that he was extant,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At his widow’s home was he.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When he saw the hills and hollows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the streets he could but know,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He gave utterance as follows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the sentiments below:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Blast my tarry toplights! (shiver,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Too, my timbers!) but, I say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>W’at a larruk to diskiver,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I have lost me blessid way!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“W’at, alas, would be my bloomin’</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fate if Philip now I see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which I lammed?⁠—or my old ’oman,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which has frequent basted <em>me</em>?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Scenes of childhood swam around him</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">At the thought of such a lot:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In a swoon his Annie found him</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And conveyed him to her cot.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Twas the very house, the garden,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where their honeymoon was passed:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas the place where <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Arden</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Would have mourned him to the last.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, what grief she’d known without him!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Now what tears of joy she shed!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enoch Arden looked about him:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Shanghaied!”⁠—that was all he said.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="disavowal" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Disavowal</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Two bodies are lying in Phoenix Park,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grim and bloody and stiff and stark,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And a Land League man with averted eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Crosses himself as he hurries by.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he says to his conscience under his breath:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I have had no hand in this deed of death!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A Fenian, making a circuit wide</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And passing them by on the other side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shudders and crosses himself and cries:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Who says that I did it, he lies, he lies!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Gingerly stepping across the gore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pat Satan comes after the two before,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Makes, in a solemnly comical way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sign of the cross and is heard to say:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“O dear, what a terrible sight to see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For babes like them and a saint like me!”</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1882">1882</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="an-average" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Average</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I ne’er could be entirely fond</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of any maiden who’s a blonde,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And no brunette that e’er I saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My whole devotion e’er could draw.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet sure no girl was ever made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just half of light and half of shade.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so, this happy mean to get,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I love a blonde and a brunette.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="incurable" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Incurable</h3>
				<p>
					<span>From pride, joy, hate, greed, melancholy⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From any kind of vice, or folly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bias, propensity or passion</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That is in prevalence and fashion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save one, the sufferer or lover</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May, by the grace of God, recover:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alone that spiritual tetter,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The zeal to make creation better,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Glows still immedicably warmer.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who knows of a reformed reformer?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-pun" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Pun</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Hail, peerless Pun! thou last and best,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Most rare and excellent bequest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of dying idiot to the wit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He died of, rat-like, in a pit!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thyself disguised, in many a way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou let’st thy sudden splendor play,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Adorning all where’er it turns,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the revealing bull’s-eye burns,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the dim thief, and plays its trick</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the lock he means to pick.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yet sometimes, too, thou dost appear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As boldly as a brigadier</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tricked out with marks and signs, all o’er,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of rank, brigade, division, corps,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To show by every means he can</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An officer is not a man;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or naked, with a lordly swagger,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Proud as a cur without a wagger,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who says: “See simple worth prevail⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All dog, sir⁠—not a bit of tail!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Tis then men give thee loudest welcome,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As if thou wert a soul from Hell come.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O obvious Pun! thou hast the grace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of skeleton clock without a case⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With all its boweling displayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all its organs on parade.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Dear Pun, you’re common ground of bliss,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where <i epub:type="se:name.publication.magazine">Punch</i> and I can meet and kiss;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than thee my wit can stoop no low’r⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No higher his does ever soar.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-nanine" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To Nanine</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Dear, if I never saw your face again;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If all the music of your voice were mute</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As that of a forlorn and broken lute;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If only in my dreams I might attain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The benediction of your touch, how vain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Were Faith to justify the old pursuit</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of happiness, or Reason to confute</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pessimist philosophy of pain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet Love not altogether is unwise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For still the wind would murmur in the corn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And still the sun would splendor all the mere;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And I⁠—I could not, dearest, choose but hear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your voice upon the breeze and see your eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shine in the glory of the summer morn.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="vice-versa" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Vice Versa</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Down in the state of Maine, the story goes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A woman, to secure a lapsing pension,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Married a soldier⁠—though the good Lord knows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That very common act scarce calls for mention.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What makes it worthy to be writ and read⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The man she married had been nine hours dead!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now, marrying a corpse is not an act</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Familiar to our daily observation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And so I crave her pardon if the fact</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Suggests this interesting speculation:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should some mischance restore the man to life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would she be then a widow, or a wife?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let casuists contest the point; I’m not</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Disposed to grapple with so great a matter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twould tie my thinker in a double knot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And drive me staring mad as any hatter⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though I submit that hatters are, in fact,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sane, and all other human beings cracked.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Small thought have I of Destiny or Chance;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Luck seems to me the same thing as Intention;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In metaphysics I could ne’er advance,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And think it of the Devil’s own invention.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enough of joy to know though when I wed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I <em>must</em> be married, yet I <em>may</em> be dead.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-blacklist" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Blacklist</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“Resolved that we will post,” the tradesmen say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“All names of debtors who do never pay.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Whose shall be first?” inquires the ready scribe⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Who are the chiefs of the marauding tribe?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo! high Parnassus, lifting from the plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon his hoary peak, a noble fane!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within that temple all the names are scrolled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of village bards upon a slab of gold;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To that bad eminence, my friend, aspire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And copy thou the Roll of Fame, entire.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet not to total shame those names devote,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But add in mercy this explaining note:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“These cheat because the law makes theft a crime,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they obey all laws but laws of rhyme.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="authority" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Authority</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“Authority, authority!” they shout</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose minds, not large enough to hold a doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some chance opinion ever entertain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By dogma billeted upon their brain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Ha!” they exclaim with choreatic glee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Here’s Dabster if you won’t give in to me⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dabster, sir, Dabster, to whom all men look</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With reverence!” The fellow wrote a book.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It matters not that many another wight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has thought more deeply, could more wisely write</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On t’ other side⁠—that you yourself possess</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knowledge where Dabster did but faintly guess.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God help you if ambitious to persuade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fools who take opinion ready-made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And “recognize authorities.” Be sure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No tittle of their folly they’ll abjure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For all that you can say. But write it down,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Publish and die and get a great renown⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Faith! how they’ll snap it up, misread, misquote,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swear that they had a hand in all you wrote,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ride your fame like monkeys on a goat!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-psoriad" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Psoriad</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The King of Scotland, years and years ago,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Convened his courtiers in a gallant row</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thus addressed them:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="right">“Gentle sirs, from you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Abundant counsel I have had, and true:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What laws to make to serve the public weal;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What laws of Nature’s making to repeal;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What old religion is the only true one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And what the greater merit of some new one;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What friends of yours my favor have forgot;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which of your enemies against me plot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In harvests ample to augment my treasures,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behold the fruits of your sagacious measures!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The punctual planets, to their periods just,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Attest your wisdom and approve my trust.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo! the reward your shining virtues bring:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The grateful placemen bless their useful king!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But while you quaff the nectar of my favor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I mean somewhat to modify its flavor</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By just infusing a peculiar dash</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of tonic bitter in the calabash.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And should you, too abstemious, disdain it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Egad! I’ll hold your noses till you drain it!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“You know, you dogs, your master long has felt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A keen distemper in the royal pelt⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A testy, superficial irritation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brought home, I fancy, from some foreign nation.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For this a thousand simples you’ve prescribed⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unguents external, draughts to be imbibed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’ve plundered Scotland of its plants, the seas</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’ve ravished, and despoiled the Hebrides,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To brew me remedies which, in probation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were sovereign only in their application.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In vain, and eke in pain, have I applied</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your flattering unctions to my soul and hide:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Physic and hope have been my daily food⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve swallowed treacle by the holy rood!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Your wisdom, which sufficed to guide the year</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And tame the seasons in their mad career,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When set to higher purposes has failed me</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And added anguish to the ills that ailed me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor that alone, but each ambitious leech</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His rivals’ skill has labored to impeach</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By hints equivocal in secret speech.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For years, to conquer our respective broils,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We’ve plied each other with pacific oils.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In vain: your turbulence is unallayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My flame unquenched; your rioting unstayed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My life so wretched from your strife to save it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That death were welcome did I dare to brave it.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With zeal inspired by your intemperate pranks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My subjects muster in contending ranks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those fling their banners to the startled breeze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To champion some royal ointment; these</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The standard of some royal purge display</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ’neath that ensign wage a wasteful fray!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brave tongues are thundering from sea to sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Torrents of sweat roll reeking o’er the lea!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My people perish in their martial fear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And rival bagpipes cleave the royal ear!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Now, caitiffs, tremble, for this very hour</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your injured sovereign shall assert his power!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behold this lotion, carefully compound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of all the poisons you for me have found⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of biting washes such as tan the skin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And drastic drinks to vex the parts within.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What aggravates an ailment will produce⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I mean to rub you with this dreadful juice!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Divided counsels you no more shall hatch⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At last you shall unanimously scratch.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kneel, villains, kneel, and doff your shirts⁠—God bless us!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They’ll seem, when you resume them, robes of Nessus!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The sovereign ceased, and, sealing what he spoke,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Arthur’s Seat<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-1" id="noteref-1" epub:type="noteref">1</a> confirming thunders broke.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The conscious culprits, to their fate resigned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sank to their knees, all piously inclined.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This act, from high Ben Lomond where she floats,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The thrifty goddess, Caledonia, notes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Glibly as nimble sixpence, down she tilts</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Headlong, and ravishes away their kilts,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tears off each plaid and all their shirts discloses,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Removes each shirt and their broad backs exposes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The king advanced⁠—then cursing fled amain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dashing the phial to the stony plain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Where’t straight became a fountain brimming o’er,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whence Father Tweed derives his liquid store)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For lo! already on each back <i xml:lang="fr">sans</i> stitch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The red sign manual of the Rosy Witch!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="peace" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Peace</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When lion and lamb have together lain down</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Spectators cry out, all in chorus;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The lamb doesn’t shrink nor the lion frown⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A miracle’s working before us!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But ’tis patent why Hot-head his wrath holds in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Faint-heart her terror and loathing;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the one’s but an ass in a lion’s skin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The other a wolf in sheep’s clothing.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="thanksgiving" epub:type="z3998:drama">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Thanksgiving</h3>
				<section id="thanksgiving-dramatis-personae" epub:type="z3998:dramatis-personae">
					<ul>
						<li>
							<p>The Superintendent of an Almshouse</p>
						</li>
						<li>
							<p>A Pauper</p>
						</li>
					</ul>
				</section>
				<section id="thanksgiving-scene">
					<table>
						<tbody>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Superintendent</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>So <em>you’re</em> unthankful⁠—you’ll not eat the bird?</span>
										<br/>
										<span>You sit about the place all day and gird.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>I understand you’ll not attend the ball</span>
										<br/>
										<span>That’s to be given to-night in Pauper Hall.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pauper</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Why, that is true, precisely as you’ve heard:</span>
										<br/>
										<span>I have no teeth and I will eat no bird.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Superintendent</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>Ah! see how good is Providence. Because</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Of teeth He has denuded both your jaws</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The fowl’s made tender; you can overcome it</span>
										<br/>
										<span>By suction; or at least⁠—well, you can gum it,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Confirming thus the dictum of the preachers</span>
										<br/>
										<span>That Providence is good to all His creatures⁠—</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Turkeys excepted. Come, ungrateful friend,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>If our Thanksgiving dinner you’ll attend</span>
										<br/>
										<span>You shall say grace⁠—ask God to bless at least</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The soft and liquid portions of the feast.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Pauper</td>
								<td>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>Without those teeth my speech is rather thick⁠—</span>
											<br/>
											<span>He’ll hardly understand Gum Arabic.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>No, I’ll not dine to-day. As to the ball,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>’Tis known to you that I’ve no legs at all.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>I had the gout⁠—hereditary; so,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>As it could not be cornered in my toe</span>
											<br/>
											<span>They cut my legs off in the fond belief</span>
											<br/>
											<span>That shortening me would make my anguish brief.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Lacking my legs I could not prosecute</span>
											<br/>
											<span>With any good advantage a pursuit;</span>
											<br/>
											<span>And so, because my father chose to court</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Heaven’s favor with his ortolans and Port</span>
											<br/>
											<span>(Thanksgiving every day!) the Lord supplied</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Saws for my legs, an almshouse for my pride</span>
											<br/>
											<span>And, once a year, a bird for my inside.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>No, I’ll not dance⁠—my light fantastic toe</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Took to its heels some twenty years ago.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Some small repairs would be required for putting</span>
											<br/>
											<span>My body on a saltatory footing.</span>
										</p>
									</div>
									<p>
										<i epub:type="z3998:stage-direction">Sings</i>
									</p>
									<div epub:type="z3998:verse">
										<p>
											<span>O the legless man’s an unhappy chap⁠—</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i1">
												<em>Tum-hi, tum-hi, tum-he o’haddy.</em>
											</span>
											<br/>
											<span>The favors o’ fortune fall not in his lap⁠—</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i2">
												<em>Tum-hi, tum-heedle-do hum.</em>
											</span>
											<br/>
											<span>The plums of office avoid his plate</span>
											<br/>
											<span>No matter how much he may stump the State⁠—</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i3">
												<em>Tum-hi, ho-heeee.</em>
											</span>
											<br/>
											<span>The grass grows never beneath his feet,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>But he cannot hope to make both ends meet⁠—</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i4">
												<em>Tum-hi.</em>
											</span>
											<br/>
											<span>With a gleeless eye and a somber heart,</span>
											<br/>
											<span>He plays the rôle of his mortal part:</span>
											<br/>
											<span>Wholly himself he can never be.</span>
											<br/>
											<span>O, a soleless corporation is he!</span>
											<br/>
											<span class="i5">
												<em>Tum.</em>
											</span>
										</p>
									</div>
								</td>
							</tr>
							<tr>
								<td epub:type="z3998:persona">Superintendent</td>
								<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
									<p>
										<span>The chapel bell is calling, thankless friend,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Balls you may not, but church you <em>shall</em>, attend.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Some recognition cannot be denied</span>
										<br/>
										<span>To the great mercy that has turned aside</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The sword of death from us and let it fall</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Upon the people’s necks in Montreal;</span>
										<br/>
										<span>That spared our city, steeple, roof and dome,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>And drowned the Texans out of house and home;</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Blessed all our continent with peace, to flood</span>
										<br/>
										<span>The Balkan with a cataclysm of blood.</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Compared with blessings of so high degree,</span>
										<br/>
										<span>Your private woes look mighty small⁠—to me.</span>
									</p>
								</td>
							</tr>
						</tbody>
					</table>
				</section>
			</article>
			<article id="laudace" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">L’audace</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Daughter of God! Audacity divine⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of clowns the terror and of brains the sign⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not thou the inspirer of the rushing fool,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not thine of idiots the vocal drool:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy bastard sister of the brow of brass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Presumption, actuates the charging ass.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sky-born Audacity! of thee who sings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Should strike with freer hand than mine the strings;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The notes should mount on pinions true and strong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For thou, the subject shouldst sustain the song,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till angels lean from Heaven, a breathless throng!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alas! with reeling heads and wavering tails,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They (notes, not angels) drop and the hymn fails;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The minstrel’s tender fingers and his thumbs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are torn to rags upon the lyre he strums.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have done! the lofty thesis makes demand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For stronger voices and a harder hand:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Night-howling apes to make the notes aspire,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Poet Riley’s fist to slug the rebel wire!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-gods-view-point" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The God’s View-Point</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Cheeta Raibama Chunder Sen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wisest and the best of men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Betook him to the place where sat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With folded feet upon a mat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of precious stones beneath a palm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In sweet and everlasting calm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That ancient and immortal gent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The God of Rational Content.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As tranquil and unmoved as Fate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The deity reposed in state,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With palm to palm and sole to sole,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And beaded breast and beetling jowl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And belly spread upon his thighs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And costly diamonds for eyes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As Chunder Sen approached and knelt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To show the reverence he felt;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then beat his head upon the sod</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To prove his fealty to the god;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And then by gestures signified</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The other sentiments inside;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The god’s right eye (as Chunder Sen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wisest and the best of men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Half-fancied) grew by just a thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span>More narrow than it truly ought.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet still that prince of devotees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Persistent upon bended knees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And elbows bored into the earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Declared the god’s exceeding worth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And begged his favor. Then at last,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within that cavernous and vast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thoracic space was heard a sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like that of water underground⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A gurgling note that found a vent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At mouth of that Immortal Gent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In such a chuckle as no ear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had e’er been privileged to hear!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Cheeta Raibama Chunder Sen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wisest, greatest, best of men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heard with a natural surprise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That mighty midriff improvise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And greater yet the marvel was</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When from between those massive jaws</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fell words to make the views more plain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The god was pleased to entertain:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Cheeta Raibama Chunder Sen,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So ran the rede in speech of men⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Foremost of mortals in assent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To creed of Rational Content,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why come you here to impetrate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A blessing on your scurvy pate?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can you not rationally be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Content without disturbing me?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Can you not take a hint⁠—a wink⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of what of all this rot I think?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is laughter lost upon you quite,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To check you in your pious rite?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What! know you not we gods protest</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That all religion is a jest?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You take me seriously?⁠—you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About me make a great ado</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(When I but wish to be alone)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With attitudes supine and prone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With genuflexions and with prayers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And putting on of solemn airs,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To draw my mind from the survey</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Rational Content away!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Learn once for all, if learn you can,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This truth, significant to man:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A pious person is by odds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The one most hateful to the gods.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then stretching forth his great right hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which shadowed all that sunny land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That deity bestowed a touch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which Chunder Sen not overmuch</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Enjoyed⁠—a touch divine that made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sufferer hear stars! They played</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sang as on Creation’s morn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When spheric harmony was born.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Cheeta Raibama Chunder Sen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The most astonished man of men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fell straight asleep, and when he woke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The deity nor moved nor spoke,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But sat beneath that ancient palm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In sweet and everlasting calm.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-aesthetes" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Aesthetes</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The lily cranks, the lily cranks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The loppy, loony lasses!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They multiply in rising ranks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To execute their solemn pranks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They moon along in masses.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blow, sweet lily, in the shade! O,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sunflower decorate the dado!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The maiden ass, the maiden ass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The tall and tailless jenny!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In limp attire as green as grass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She stands, a monumental brass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The one of one too many.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blow, sweet lily, in the shade! O,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sunflower decorate the dado!</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1883">1883</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="with-mine-own-petard" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">With Mine Own Petard</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Time was the local poets sang their songs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beneath their breath in terror of the thongs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I snapped about their shins. Though mild the stroke</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bards, like the conies, are “a feeble folk,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fearing all noises but the one they make</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Themselves⁠—at which all other mortals quake.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now from their cracked and disobedient throats,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like rats from sewers scampering, their notes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pour forth to move, where’er the season serves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If not our legs to dance, at least our nerves;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As once a ram’s-horn solo maddened all</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sober-minded stones in Jerich’s wall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A year’s exemption from the critic’s curse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mends the bard’s courage but impairs his verse.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus poolside frogs, when croaking in the night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are frayed to silence by a meteor’s flight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or by the sudden plashing of a stone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From some adjacent cottage garden thrown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But straight renew the song with double din</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whene’er the light goes out or man goes in.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall I with arms unbraced (my casque unlatched,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My falchion pawned, my buckler, too, attached)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Resume the cuishes and the broad cuirass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Accomplishing my body all in brass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And arm in battle royal to oppose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A village poet singing through the nose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or strolling troubadour his lyre who strums</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With clumsy hand whose fingers all are thumbs?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No, let them rhyme; I fought them once before</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stilled their songs⁠—but, Satan! how they swore!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cuffed them upon the mouth whene’er their throats</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They cleared for action with their sweetest notes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Twisted their ears (they’d oft tormented mine)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And damned them roundly all along the line;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clubbed the whole crew from the Parnassian slopes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A wreck of broken heads and broken hopes!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What gained I so? I feathered every curse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Launched at the village bards with lilting verse.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The town approved and christened me (to show its</span>
					<br/>
					<span>High admiration) Chief of Local Poets!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="restored" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Restored</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Dull were the days and sober,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The mountains were brown and bare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For the season was sad October</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And a dirge was in the air.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The mated starlings flew over</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To the isles of the southern sea.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She wept for her warrior lover⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wept and exclaimed: “Ah, me!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Long years have I mourned my darling</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In his battle-bed at rest;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And it’s O, to be a starling,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With a mate to share my nest!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The angels pitied her sorrow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Restoring her warrior’s life;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he came to her arms on the morrow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To claim her and take her to wife.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>An aged lover⁠—a portly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Bald lover, a trifle too stiff,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With manners that would have been courtly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And would have been graceful, if⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If the angels had only restored him</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Without the additional years</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That had passed since the enemy bored him</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To death with their long, sharp spears.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As it was, he bored her, and she rambled</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Away with her father’s young groom,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the old lover smiled as he ambled</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Contentedly back to the tomb.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="sires-and-sons" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Sires and Sons</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Wild wanton Luxury lays waste the land</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With difficulty tilled by Thrift’s hard hand!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then dies the State!⁠—and, in its carcass found,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The millionaires, all maggot-like, abound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alas! was it for this that Warren died,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Arnold sold himself to t’ other side,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stark piled at Bennington his British dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Gates at Camden, Lee at Monmouth, fled?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For this that Perry did the foeman fleece,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Hull surrender to preserve the peace?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Degenerate countrymen, renounce, I pray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The slothful ease, the luxury, the gay</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And gallant trappings of this idle life,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And be more fit for one another’s wife.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-challenge" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Challenge</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A bull imprisoned in a stall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Broke boldly the confining wall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And found himself, when out of bounds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Within a washerwoman’s grounds.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where, hanging on a line to dry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A crimson skirt inflamed his eye.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With bellowings that woke the dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He bent his formidable head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With pointed horns and gnarly forehead;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then, planting firm his shoulders horrid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Began, with rage made half insane,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To paw the arid earth amain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flinging the dust upon his flanks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In desolating clouds and banks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The while his eyes’ uneasy white</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Betrayed his doubt what foe the bright</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Red tent concealed, perchance, from sight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The garment, which, all undismayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Had never paled a single shade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now found a tongue⁠—a dangling sock,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Left carelessly inside the smock:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I must insist, my gracious liege,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That you’ll be pleased to raise the siege:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My colors I will never strike.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I know your sex⁠—you’re all alike.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some small experience I’ve had⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’re not the first I’ve driven mad.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="two-shows" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Two Shows</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The showman (blessing in a thousand shapes!)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Parades a “School of Educated Apes!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Small education’s needed, I opine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or native wit, to make a monkey shine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The brute exhibited has naught to do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But ape the larger apes who come to view⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hoodlum with his horrible grimace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Long upper lip and furtive, shuffling pace,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Significant reminders of the time</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When hunters, not policemen, made him climb;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lady loafer with her draggling “trail,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That free translation of an ancient tail;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sand-lot quadrumane in hairy suit,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose heels are thumbs perverted by the boot;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The painted actress throwing down the gage</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To elder artists of the sylvan stage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Proving that in the time of Noah’s flood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two ape-skins held her whole profession’s blood;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The critic waiting, like a hungry pup,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To write the school⁠—perhaps to eat it⁠—up,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As chance or luck occasion may reveal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To earn a dollar or maraud a meal.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To view the school of apes these creatures go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unconscious that themselves are half the show.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These, if the simian his course but trim</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To copy them as they have copied him,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Will call him “educated.” Of a verity</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There’s much to learn by study of posterity.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-poets-hope" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Poet’s Hope</h3>
				<p>
					<span>’Twas a weary-looking mortal, and he wandered near the portal</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the melancholy City of the Discontented Dead.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He was pale and worn exceeding and his manner was unheeding,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As if it could not matter what he did nor what he said.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Sacred stranger”⁠—I addressed him with a reverence befitting</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The austere, unintermitting, dread solemnity he wore;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis the custom, too, prevailing in that vicinage when hailing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">One who possibly may be a person lately “gone before”⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Sacred stranger, much I ponder on your evident dejection,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But my carefulest reflection leaves the riddle still unread.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How do you yourself explain your dismal tendency to wander</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By the melancholy City of the Discontented Dead?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then that solemn person, pausing in the march that he was making,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Roused himself as if awaking, fixed his dull and stony eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On my countenance and, slowly, like a priest devout and holy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Chanted in a mournful monotone the following reply:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O my brother, do not fear it; I’m no disembodied spirit⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I am Lampton, the Slang Poet, with a price upon my head.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I am watching by this portal for some late lamented mortal</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To arise in his disquietude and leave his earthy bed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Then I hope to take possession and pull in the earth above me</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And, renouncing my profession, ne’er be heard of any more.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For there’s not a soul to love me and no living thing respects me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which so painfully affects me that I fain would ‘go before.’ ”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then I felt a deep compassion for the gentleman’s dejection,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For privation of affection would refrigerate a frog.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So I said: “If nothing human, and if neither man nor woman</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Can appreciate the fashion of your merit⁠—buy a dog.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-woman-and-the-devil" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Woman and the Devil</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When Man and Woman had been made,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All but the disposition,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Devil to the workshop strayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And somehow gained admission.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Master rested from his work,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For this was on a Sunday,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The man was snoring like a Turk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Content to wait till Monday.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Too bad!” the Woman cried; “Oh, why,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Does slumber not benumb me?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A disposition! Oh, I die</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To know if ’twill become me!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Adversary said: “No doubt</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">’Twill be extremely fine, ma’am,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though sure ’tis long to be without⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I beg to lend you mine, ma’am.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Devil’s disposition when</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She’d got, of course she wore it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For she’d no disposition then,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor now has, to restore it.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="two-rogues" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Two Rogues</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Dim, grim, and silent as a ghost,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sentry occupied his post,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To all the stirrings of the night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alert of ear and sharp of sight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A sudden something⁠—sight or sound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About, above, or underground,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He knew not what, nor where⁠—ensued,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thrilling the sleeping solitude.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soldier cried: “Halt! Who goes there?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The answer came: “Death⁠—in the air.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Advance, Death⁠—give the countersign,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or perish if you cross that line!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To change his tone Death thought it wise⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reminded him they ’d been allies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Against the Russ, the Frank, the Turk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In many a bloody bit of work.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“In short,” said he, “in every weather</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We’ve soldiered, you and I, together.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sentry would not let him pass.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Go back,” he growled, “you tiresome ass⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go back and rest till the next war,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor kill by methods all abhor:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Miasma, famine, filth and vice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With plagues of locusts, plagues of lice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Foul food, foul water, and foul gases,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rank exhalations from morasses.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If you employ such low allies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This business you will vulgarize.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Renouncing then the field of fame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To wallow in a waste of shame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll prostitute my strength and lurk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About the country doing work⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>These hands to labor I’ll devote,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor cut, by Heaven, another throat!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-pied-piper-of-brooklyn" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Pied Piper of Brooklyn</h3>
				<p>
					<span>So, Beecher’s dead. His was a great soul, too⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Great as a giant organ is, whose reeds</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hold in them all the souls of all the creeds</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That man has ever taught and never knew.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When on this mighty instrument was laid</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His hand Who fashioned it, our common moan</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was suppliant in its thundering. The tone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grew more vivacious when the Devil played.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No more those luring harmonies we hear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And lo! already men forget the sound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They turn, retracing all the dubious ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O’er which he’d led them stoutly by the ear.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="not-guilty" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Not Guilty</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“I saw your charms in another’s arms,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Said a Grecian swain with his blood a-boil;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“And he kissed you fair as he held you there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A willing bird in a serpent’s coil!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The maid looked up from the cinctured cup</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wherein she was crushing the berries red,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pain and surprise in her honest eyes⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“It was only one o’ those gods,” she said.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="presentiment" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Presentiment</h3>
				<p>
					<span>With saintly grace and reverent tread,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She walked among the graves with me;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Her every foot-fall seemed to be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A benediction on the dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The guardian spirit of the place</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She seemed, and I some ghost forlorn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Surprised in the untimely morn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She made with her resplendent face.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Moved by some waywardness of will,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Three paces from the path apart</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She stepped and stood⁠—my prescient heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was stricken with a passing chill.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The folk-lore of the years agone</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Remembering, I smiled and thought:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Who shudders suddenly at naught,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His grave is being trod upon.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But now I know that it was more</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Than idle fancy. O, my sweet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I did not think such little feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could make a buried heart so sore!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-study-in-gray" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Study in Gray</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I step from the door with a shiver</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(This fog is uncommonly cold)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ask myself: What did I give her?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The maiden a trifle gone-old,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With the head of gray hair that was gold.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, well, I suppose ’twas a dollar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And doubtless the change is correct,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though it’s odd that it seems so much smaller</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Than what I’d a right to expect.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But you pay when you dine, I reflect.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So I walk up the street⁠—’twas a saunter</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A score of years back, when I strolled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From this door; and our talk was all banter</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Those days when her hair was of gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the sea-fog less searching and cold.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I button my coat (for I’m shaken,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And fevered a trifle, and flushed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the wine that I ought to have taken,)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Time was, at this coat I’d have blushed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though truly, ’tis cleverly brushed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A score? Why, that isn’t so very</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Much time to have lost from a life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There’s reason enough to be merry:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I’ve not fallen down in the strife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But marched with the drum and the fife.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If Hope, when she lured me and beckoned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had pushed at my shoulders instead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Fame, on whose favors I reckoned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had laureled the worthiest head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I could garland the years that are dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Believe me, I’ve held my own, mostly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Through all of this wild masquerade;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But somehow the fog is more ghostly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To-night, and the skies are more grayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like the locks of the restaurant maid.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If ever I’d fainted and faltered</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I’d fancy this did but appear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the climate, I’m certain, has altered⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Grown colder and more austere</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Than it was in that earlier year.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The lights, too, are strangely unsteady,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That lead from the street to the quay.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I think they’ll go out⁠—and I’m ready</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To follow. Out there in the sea</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The fog-bell is calling to me.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="for-merit" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">For Merit</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To Parmentier Parisians raise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A statue fine and large:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He cooked potatoes fifty ways,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor ever led a charge.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“<i xml:lang="la">Palmam qui meruit”</i>⁠—the rest</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You knew as well as I;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And best of all to him that best</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of sayings will apply.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let meaner men the poet’s bays</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or warrior’s medal wear;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who cooks potatoes fifty ways</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shall bear the palm⁠—de terre.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-bit-of-science" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Bit of Science</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What! photograph in colors? ’Tis a dream</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And he who dreams it is not overwise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If colors are vibration they but seem,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And have no being. But if Tyndall lies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Why, come, then⁠—photograph my lady’s eyes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay, friend, you can’t; the splendor of their blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As on my own beclouded orbs they rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To naught but vibratory motion’s due,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As heart, head, limbs and all I am attest.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How could her eyes, at rest themselves, be making</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In me so uncontrollable a shaking?</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1894">1894</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="the-tables-turned" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Tables Turned</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Over the man the street car ran,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the driver did never grin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“O killer of men, pray tell me when</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Your laughter means to begin.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Ten years to a day I’ve observed you slay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And I never have missed before</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your jubilant peals as your crunching wheels</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Were spattered with human gore.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Why is it, my boy, that you smother your joy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And why do you make no sign</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the merry mind that is dancing behind</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A solemner face than mine?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The driver replied: “I would laugh till I cried</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If I had bisected you;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I’d like to explain, if I can for the pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">’Tis myself that I’ve cut in two.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-dejected-poet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To a Dejected Poet</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Thy gift, if that it be of God,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thou hast no warrant to appraise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor say: “Here part, O Muse, our ways,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The road too stony to be trod.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Not thine to call the labor hard</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the reward inadequate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who haggles o’er his hire with Fate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is better bargainer than bard.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What! count the effort labor lost</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When thy good angel holds the reed?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It were a sorry thing indeed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To stay him till thy palm be crossed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“The laborer is worthy”⁠—nay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sacred ministry of song</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is rapture!⁠—’twere a grievous wrong</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fix a wages-rate for play.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-fool" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Fool</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Says Anderson, Theosophist:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Among the many that exist</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In modern halls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some lived in ancient Egypt’s clime</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in their childhood saw the prime</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Karnak’s walls.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah, Anderson, if that is true</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis my conviction, sir, that you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are one of those</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That once resided by the Nile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Peer to the sacred Crocodile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Heir to his woes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My judgment is, the holy Cat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mews through your larynx (and your hat)</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">These many years.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through you the godlike Onion brings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its melancholy sense of things,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And moves to tears.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In you the Bull divine again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bellows and paws the dusty plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To nature true.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I challenge not his ancient hate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, lowering my knurly pate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lock horns with you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And though Reincarnation prove</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A creed too stubborn to remove,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And all your school</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Theosophs I cannot scare⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the more earnestly I swear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That you’re a fool.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You’ll say that this is mere abuse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Without, in fraying you, a use.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That’s plain to see</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With only half an eye. Come, now,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be fair, be fair⁠—consider how</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It eases <em>me</em>!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-humorist" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Humorist</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“What is that, mother?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="right">“The humorist, child.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His hands are black, but his heart is mild.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“May I touch him, mother?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="right">“ ’Twere needlessly done:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He is slightly touched already, my son.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O, why does he wear such a ghastly grin?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“That’s the outward sign of a joke within.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Will he crack it, mother?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="right">“Not so, my saint;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis meant for the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Saturday Livercomplaint.”</i></span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Does he suffer, mother?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="right">“God help him, yes!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A thousand and fifty kinds of distress.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“What makes him sweat so?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="right">“The demons that lurk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the fear of having to go to work.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Why doesn’t he end, then, his life with a rope?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Abolition of Hell has deprived him of hope.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="montefiore" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Montefiore</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I saw⁠—’twas in a dream, the other night⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man whose hair with age was thin and white:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">One hundred years had bettered by his birth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And still his step was firm, his eye was bright.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Before him and about him pressed a crowd.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each head in reverence was bared and bowed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Jews and Gentiles in a hundred tongues</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Extolled his deeds and spoke his fame aloud.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I joined the throng and, pushing forward, cried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Montefiore!” with the rest, and vied</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In efforts to caress the hand that ne’er</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To want and worth had charity denied.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So closely round him swarmed our shouting clan</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He scarce could breathe, and taking from a pan</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A gleaming coin he tossed it o’er our heads,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in a moment was a lonely man!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="discretion" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Discretion</h3>
				<table epub:type="z3998:drama">
					<tbody>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">She</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>I’m told that men have sometimes got</span>
									<br/>
									<span class="i1">Too confidential, and</span>
									<br/>
									<span>Have said to one another what</span>
									<br/>
									<span class="i1">They⁠—well, you understand.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I hope I don’t offend you, sweet,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But are you sure that <em>you’re</em> discreet?</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
						<tr>
							<td epub:type="z3998:persona">He</td>
							<td epub:type="z3998:verse">
								<p>
									<span>’Tis true, sometimes my friends in wine</span>
									<br/>
									<span class="i1">Their conquests <em>do</em> recall,</span>
									<br/>
									<span>But none can truly say that mine</span>
									<br/>
									<span class="i1">Are known to him at all.</span>
									<br/>
									<span>I never, never talk you o’er⁠—</span>
									<br/>
									<span>In truth, I never get the floor.</span>
								</p>
							</td>
						</tr>
					</tbody>
				</table>
			</article>
			<article id="an-exile" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Exile</h3>
				<p>
					<span>’Tis the census enumerator</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A-singing all forlorn:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s ho! for the tall potater,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And ho! for the clustered corn.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The whiffle-tree bends in the breeze and the fine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Large eggs are a-ripening on the vine.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Some there must be to till the soil</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the widow’s weeds keep down.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wasn’t cut out for rural toil</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But they <em>won’t</em> let me live in town!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They’re not so many by two or three,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As they think, but ah! they’re too many for me.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thus the census man, bowed down with care,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Warbled his wood-note high.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There was blood on his brow and blood in his hair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But he had no blood in his eye.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-division-superintendent" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Division Superintendent</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Baffled he stands upon the track⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The automatic switches clack.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where’er he turns his solemn eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The interlocking signals rise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The trains, before his visage pale,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Glide smoothly by, nor leave the rail.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No splinter-spitted victim he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hears uttering the note high C.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In sorrow deep he hangs his head,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A-weary⁠—would that he were dead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now suddenly his spirits rise⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A great thought kindles in his eyes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hope, like a headlight’s vivid glare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Splendors the path of his despair.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His genius shines, the clouds roll back⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I’ll place obstructions on the track!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-professional-eulogist" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To a Professional Eulogist</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Newman, in you two parasites combine:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As tapeworm and as graveworm too you shine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When on the virtues of the quick you’ve dwelt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The pride of residence was all you felt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(What vain vulgarian the wish ne’er knew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To paint his lodging a flamboyant hue?)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when the praises of the dead you’ve sung,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas appetite, not truth, inspired your tongue;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As ill-bred men when warming to their wine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Boast of its merit though it be but brine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor gratitude incites your song, nor should⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even charity would shun you if she could.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You share, ’tis true, the rich man’s daily dole,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But what you get you take by way of toll.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vain to resist you⁠—vermifuge alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has power to push you from your robber throne.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When to escape you he’s compelled to die</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hey! presto!⁠—in the twinkling of an eye</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You vanish as a tapeworm, reappear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As graveworm and resume your curst career.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As host no more, to satisfy your need</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He serves as dinner your unaltered greed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O thrifty sycophant of wealth and fame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Son of servility and priest of shame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While naught your mad ambition can abate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To lick the spittle of the rich and great;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While still like smoke your eulogies arise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To soot your heroes and inflame our eyes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While still with holy oil, like that which ran</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Down Aaron’s beard, you smear each famous man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I cannot choose but think it very odd</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It ne’er occurs to you to fawn on God.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="election-day" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Election Day</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Despots effete upon tottering thrones</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unsteadily poised upon dead men’s bones,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Walk up! walk up! the circus is free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And this wonderful spectacle you shall see:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Millions of voters who mostly are fools⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Demagogues’ dupes and candidates’ tools,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Armies of uniformed mountebanks,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And braying disciples of brainless cranks.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Many a week they’ve bellowed like beeves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bitterly blackguarding, lying like thieves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Libeling freely the quick and the dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And painting the New Jerusalem red.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tyrants monarchical⁠—emperors, kings,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Princes and nobles and all such things⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Noblemen, gentlemen, step this way:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There’s nothing, the Devil excepted, to pay,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the freaks and curios here to be seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are very uncommonly grand and serene.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No more with vivacity they debate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor cheerfully crack the illogical pate;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No longer, the dull understanding to aid,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stomach accepts the instructive blade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor the stubborn heart learns what is what</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From a revelation of rabbit-shot;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And vilification’s flames⁠—behold!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Burn with a bickering faint and cold.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Magnificent spectacle!⁠—every tongue</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Suddenly civil that yesterday rung</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Like a clapper beating a brazen bell)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each fair reputation’s eternal knell;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hands no longer delivering blows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And noses, for counting, arrayed in rows.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Walk up, gentlemen⁠—nothing to pay⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Devil goes back to Hell to-day.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-militiaman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Militiaman</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“O warrior with the burnished arms⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With bullion cord and tassel⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pray tell me of the lurid charms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of service and the fierce alarms:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The storming of the castle,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The charge across the smoking field,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The rifles’ busy rattle⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What thoughts inspire the men who wield</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The blade⁠—their gallant souls how steeled</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And fortified in battle.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Nay, man of peace, seek not to know</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">War’s baleful fascination⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soldier’s hunger for the foe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His dread of safety, joy to go</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To court annihilation.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though calling bugles blow not now,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor drums begin to beat yet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>One fear unmans me, I’ll allow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And poisons all my pleasure: How</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If I should get my feet wet!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-welcome" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Welcome</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Because you call yourself Knights Templar, and</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There’s neither Knight nor Temple in the land⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Because you thus by vain pretense degrade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To paltry purposes traditions grand⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Because to cheat the ignorant you say</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The thing that’s not, elated still to sway</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The crass credulity of gaping fools</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And women by fantastical display⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Because no sacred fires did ever warm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your hearts, high knightly service to perform⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A woman’s breast or coffer of a man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The only citadel you dare to storm⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Because while railing still at lord and peer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At pomp and fuss-and-feathers while you jeer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Each member of your order tries to graft</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A peacock’s tail upon his barren rear⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Because that all these things are thus and so,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I bid you welcome to our city. Lo!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You’re free to come, and free to stay, and free</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As soon as it shall please you, sirs⁠—to go.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-serenade" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Serenade</h3>
				<p>
					<span xml:lang="el">“Σάς ὰγαπῶ, σάς ὰγαπῶ,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He sang beneath her lattice.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“ ‘Sas agapo’?” she murmured⁠—“O,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I wonder, now, what <em>that</em> is!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Was she less fair that she did bear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So light a load of knowledge?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are loving looks got out of books,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or kisses taught in college?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Of woman’s lore give me no more</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Than how to love⁠—in many</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A tongue men brawl: she speaks them all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who says “I love,” in any.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-wise-and-good" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Wise and Good</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“O father, I saw at the church as I passed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The populace gathered in numbers so vast</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That they couldn’t get in; and their voices were low,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they looked as if suffering terrible woe.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“ ’Twas the funeral, child, of a gentleman dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For whom the great heart of humanity bled.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“What made it bleed, father, for every day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Somebody passes forever away?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do the newspaper men print a column or more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of every person whose troubles are o’er?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O, no; they could never do that⁠—and indeed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though printers might print it, no reader would read.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the sepulcher all, soon or late, must be borne,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But ’tis only the Wise and the Good that all mourn.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“That’s right, father dear, but how can our eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Distinguish in dead men the Good and the Wise?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“That’s easy enough to the stupidest mind:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They’re poor, and in dying leave nothing behind.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Seest thou in mine eye, father, anything green?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And takest thy son for a gaping marine?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Go tell thy fine tale of the Wise and the Good</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who are poor and lamented to babes in the wood.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And that horrible youth as I hastened away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was building a wink that affronted the day.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-lost-colonel" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Lost Colonel</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“ ’Tis a woeful yarn,” said the sailor man bold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who had sailed the northern-lakes⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“No woefuler one has ever been told</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Exceptin’ them called ‘fakes.’ ”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Go on, thou son of the wind and fog,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For I burn to know the worst!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But his silent lip in a glass of grog</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was dreamily immersed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then he wiped it on his sleeve and said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“It’s never like that I drinks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But what of the gallant gent that’s dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I truly mournful thinks.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“He was a soldier chap⁠—leastways</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As ‘Colonel’ he was knew;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ he hailed from some’rs where they raise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A grass that’s heavenly blue.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“He sailed as a passenger aboard</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The schooner ‘Henery Jo.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O wild the waves and galeses roared,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like taggers in a show!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“But he sat at table that calm an’ mild</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As if he never had let</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His sperit know that the waves was wild</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">An’ everlastin’ wet!⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Jest set with a bottle afore his nose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As was labeled ‘Total Eclipse’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(The bottle was) an’ he frequent rose</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A glass o’ the same to his lips.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“An’ he says to me (for the steward slick</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the ‘Henery Jo’ was I):</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘This sailor life’s the very old Nick⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On the lakes it’s powerful dry!’</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I says: ‘Aye, aye, sir, it beats the Dutch.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I hopes you’ll outlast the trip.’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But if I’d been him⁠—an’ I said as much⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I’d ’a’ took a faster ship.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“His laughture, loud an’ long an’ free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Rang out o’er the tempest’s roar.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘You’re an elegant reasoner,’ says he,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">‘But it’s powerful dry ashore!’ ”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O mariner man, why pause and don</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A look of so deep concern?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Have another glass⁠—go on, go on,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For to know the worst I burn.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“One day he was leanin’ over the rail,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When his footing some way slipped,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An’ (this is the woefulest part o’ my tale),</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He was accidental unshipped!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“The empty boats was overboard hove,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As he swum in the ‘Henery’s wake’;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But ’fore we had ’bouted ship he had drove</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From sight on the ragin’ lake!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“And so the poor gentleman was drowned⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And now I’m apprised of the worst.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“What! him? ’Twas an hour afore he was found⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the yawl⁠—stone dead o’ thirst!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="for-tat" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">For Tat</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O, heavenly powers! will wonders never cease?⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hair upon dogs and feathers upon geese!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The boys in mischief and the pigs in mire!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The drinking water wet! the coal on fire!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In meadows, rivulets surpassing fair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forever running, yet forever there!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A tail appended to the gray baboon!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A person coming out of a saloon!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Last, and of all most marvelous to see,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A female Yahoo flinging filth at me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If ’twould but stick I’d bear upon my coat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May Little’s proof that she is fit to vote.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-dilemma" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Dilemma</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Filled with a zeal to serve my fellow men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For years I criticised their prose and verges:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pointed out all their blunders of the pen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their shallowness of thought and feeling; then</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Damned them up hill and down with hearty curses!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They said: “That’s all that he can do⁠—just sneer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And pull to pieces and be analytic.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why doesn’t he himself, eschewing fear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Publish a book or two, and so appear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As one who has the right to be a critic?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Let him who knows it all forbear to tell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How little others know, but show his learning.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The public added: “Who has written well</span>
					<br/>
					<span>May censure freely”⁠—quoting Pope. I fell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Into the trap and books began out-turning⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Books by the score⁠—fine prose and poems fair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And not a book of them but was a terror,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They were so great and perfect; though I swear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I tried right hard to work in, here and there,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(My nature still forbade) a fault or error.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Tis true, some wretches, whom I’d scratched, no doubt,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Professed to find⁠—but that’s a trifling matter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now, when the flood of noble books was out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I raised o’er all that land a joyous shout,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Till I was thought as mad as any hatter!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>(Why hatters all are mad, I cannot say.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">’Twere wrong in their affliction to revile ’em,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But truly, you’ll confess ’tis very sad</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We wear the ugly things they make. Begad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They’d be less mischievous in an asylum!)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Consistency, thou art a”⁠—well, you’re <em>paste</em>!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When next I felt my demon in possession,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And made the field of authorship a waste,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All said of me: “What execrable taste,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To rail at others of his own profession!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Good Lord! where do the critic’s rights begin</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who has of literature some clear-cut notion,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hears a voice from Heaven say: “Pitch in”?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He finds himself⁠—alas, poor son of sin⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Between the devil and the deep blue ocean!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="metempsychosis-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Metempsychosis</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Once with Christ he entered Salem,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once in Moab bullied Balaam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once by Apuleius staged</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He the pious much enraged.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, again, his head, as beaver,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Topped the neck of Nick the Weaver.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Omar saw him (minus tether⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Free and wanton as the weather:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Knowing naught of bit or spur)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stamping over Bahram-Gur.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now, as Altgeld, see him joy</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As Governor of Illinois!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-saint-and-the-monk" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Saint and the Monk</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Saint Peter at the gate of Heaven displayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tools and terrors of his awful trade;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The key, the frown as pitiless as night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That slays intending trespassers at sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, at his side in easy reach, the curled</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Interrogation points all ready to be hurled.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Straight up the shining cloudway (it so chanced</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No others were about) a soul advanced⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A fat, orbicular and jolly soul</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With laughter-lines upon each rosy jowl⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A monk so prepossessing that the saint</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Admired him, breathless, until weak and faint,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forgot his frown and all his questions too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forgoing even the customary “Who?”⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Threw wide the gate and, with a friendly grin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said, “ ’Tis a very humble home, but pray walk in.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The soul smiled pleasantly. “Excuse me, please⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who’s in there?” By insensible degrees</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The impudence dispelled the saint’s esteem,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As growing snores annihilate a dream.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The frown began to blacken on his brow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His hand to reach for “Whence?” and “Why?” and “How?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“O, no offense, I hope,” the soul explained;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I’m rather⁠—well, particular. I’ve strained</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A point in coming here at all; ’tis said</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Susan Anthony (I hear she’s dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At last) and all her followers are here.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As company, they’d be⁠—confess it⁠—rather queer.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The saint replied, his rising anger past:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“What can I do?⁠—the law is hard-and-fast,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Albeit unwritten and on earth unknown⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An oral order issued from the Throne.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By but one sin has Woman e’er incurred</span>
					<br/>
					<span>God’s wrath. To accuse Them Loud of that would be absurd.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That friar sighed, but, calling up a smile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Said, slowly turning on his heel the while:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Farewell, my friend. Put up the chain and bar⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m going, so please you, where the pretty women are.”</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1895">1895</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="the-opposing-sex" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Opposing Sex</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Widows of Ashur</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are loud in their wailing:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“No longer the ‘masher’</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sees Widows of Ashur!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So each is a lasher</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Man’s smallest failing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Widows of Ashur</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are loud in their wailing.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The Cave of Adullam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That home of reviling⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No wooing can gull ’em</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Cave of Adullam.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No angel can lull ’em</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To cease their defiling</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Cave of Adullam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That home of reviling.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>At men they are cursing⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Widows of Ashur;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Themselves, too, for nursing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The men they are cursing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The praise they’re rehearsing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of every slasher</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At men. <em>They</em> are cursing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Widows of Ashur.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-high-life" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">In High Life</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Sir Impycu Lackland, from over the sea,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has led to the altar Miss Bloatie Bondee.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wedding took place at the Church of <abbr>St.</abbr> Blare;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fashion, the rank and the wealth were all there⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No person was absent of all whom one meets.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lord Mammon himself bowed them into their seats,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While good Sir John Satan attended the door</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Sexton Beelzebub managed the floor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Respectfully keeping each dog to its rug,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Preserving the peace between poodle and pug.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Twelve bridesmaids escorted the bride up the aisle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To blush in her blush and to smile in her smile;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Twelve groomsmen supported the eminent groom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To scowl in his scowl and to gloom in his gloom.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The rites were performed by the hand and the lip</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of his Grace the Diocesan, Billingham Pip,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Assisted by three able-bodied divines.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He prayed and they grunted, he read, they made signs.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such fashion, such beauty, such dressing, such grace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were ne’er before seen in that heavenly place!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That night, full of gin, and all blazing inside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sir Impycu blackened the eyes of his bride.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-whipper-in" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">A Whipper-in</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>Commissioner of Pensions Dudley has established a Sunday-school and declares he will remove any clerk in his department who does not regularly attend.</p>
						<cite>—⁠<i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper"><abbr epub:type="z3998:initialism">N.Y.</abbr> World</i></cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Dudley, great placeman, man of mark and note,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Worthy of honor from a feeble pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Blunted in service of all true, good men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You serve the Lord⁠—in courses, <i xml:lang="fr">table d’hôte</i>:</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i xml:lang="fr">Au, naturel</i>, as well as <i xml:lang="fr">à la Nick</i>⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Eat and be thankful, though it make you sick.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O, truly pious caterer, forbear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To push the Saviour and Him crucified</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(<i xml:lang="fr">Brochette</i> you’d call it) into their inside</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who’re all unused to such ambrosial fare.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stomach of the soul makes quick revulsion</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of aught that it has taken on compulsion.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I search the Scriptures, but I do not find</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That e’er the Spirit beats with angry wings</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For entrance to the heart, but sits and sings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To charm away the scruples of the mind.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It says: “Receive me, please; I’ll not compel”⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though if you don’t you will go straight to Hell!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Well, that’s compulsion, you will say. ’Tis true:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We cower timidly beneath the rod</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Lifted in menace by an angry God,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But won’t endure it from an ape like you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Detested simian with thumb prehensile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Switch <em>me</em> and I would brain you with my pencil!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Face you the Throne, nor dare to turn your back</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On its transplendency to flog some wight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who gropes and stumbles in the infernal night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your ugly shadow lays along his track.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, Thou who from the Temple scourged the sin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Behold what rascals try to scourge it in!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="judgment" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Judgment</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I drew aside the Future’s veil</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And saw upon his bier</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The poet Whitman. Loud the wail</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And damp the falling tear.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“He’s dead⁠—he is no more!” one cried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With sobs of sorrow crammed;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“No more? He’s this much more,” replied</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Another: “he is damned!”</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1885">1885</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="a-bubble" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Bubble</h3>
				<p>
					<span><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Mehitable Marcia Moore</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was a dame of superior mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a gown which, modestly fitting before,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was greatly puffed up behind.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The bustle she wore was ingeniously planned</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With an inspiration bright:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It magnified seven diameters and</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was remarkably nice and light.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It was made of rubber and edged with lace</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And riveted all with brass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the whole immense interior space</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Inflated with hydrogen gas.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The ladies all said when she hove in view</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like the round and rising moon:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“She’s a stuck up thing!” which was partly true,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And men called her the Captive Balloon.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To Manhattan Beach for a bath one day</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She went and she said: “O dear!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If I leave off <em>this</em> what will people say?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I shall look so uncommonly queer!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So a costume she had accordingly made</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To take it all nicely in,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And when she appeared in that suit arrayed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She was greeted with many a grin.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Proudly and happily looking around,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She waded out into the wet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the water was very, very profound,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And her feet and her forehead met!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As her bubble drifted away from the shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On the glassy billows borne,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All cried: “Why, where is Mehitable Moore?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I saw her go in, I’ll be sworn!”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then the bulb it swelled as the sun grew hot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Till it burst with a sullen roar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the sea like oil closed over the spot⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Farewell, O Mehitable Moore!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="francine" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Francine</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Did I believe the angels soon would call</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You, my beloved, to the other shore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And I should never see you any more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I love you so I know that I should fall</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Into dejection utterly, and all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Love’s pretty pageantry, wherein we bore</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Twin banners bravely in the tumult’s fore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would seem as shadows idling on a wall.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So daintily I love you that my love</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Endures no rumor of the winter’s breath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And only blossoms for it thinks the sky</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forever gracious, and the stars above</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Forever friendly. Even the fear of death</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Were frost wherein its roses all would die.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-example" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Example</h3>
				<p>
					<span>They were two deaf mutes, and they loved and they</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Resolved to be groom and bride;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And they listened to nothing that any could say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Nor ever a word replied.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From wedlock when warned by the married men,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Maintain an invincible mind:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be deaf and dumb until wedded⁠—and then</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Be deaf and dumb and blind.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="revenge" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Revenge</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A spitcat sate on a garden gate</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And a snapdog fared beneath;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Careless and free was his mien, and he</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Held a fiddle-string in his teeth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>She marked his march, she wrought an arch</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of her back and blew up her tail;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And her eyes were green as ever were seen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And she uttered a woful wail.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The spitcat’s plaint was as follows: “It ain’t</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That I am to music a foe;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For fiddle-strings bide in my own inside,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And I twang them soft and low.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“But that dog has trifled with art and rifled</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A kitten of mine, ah me!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That catgut slim was marauded from him:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">’Tis the string that men call E.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then she sounded high, in the key of Y,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A note that cracked the tombs;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the missiles through the firmament flew</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From adjacent sleeping-rooms.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As her gruesome yell from the gate-post fell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She followed it down to earth;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that snapdog wears a placard that bears</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The inscription: “Blind from birth.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-genesis-of-embarrassment" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Genesis of Embarrassment</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When Adam first saw Eve he said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“O lovely creature, share my bed.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before consenting, she her gaze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fixed on the greensward to appraise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As well as vision could avouch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The value of the proffered couch.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And seeing that the grass was green</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And neatly clipped with a machine⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Observing that the flow’rs were rare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Varieties, and some were fair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The posts of precious woods, besprent</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With fragrant balsams, diffluent,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And all things suited to her worth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She raised her angel eyes from earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To his and, blushing to confess,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Murmured: “I love you, Adam⁠—yes.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since then her daughters, it is said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Look always down when asked to wed.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-contumaciam" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">In Contumaciam</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Och! Father McGlynn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ye appear to be in</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fer a bit of a bout wid the Pope;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">An’ there’s divil a doubt</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But he’s knockin’ ye out</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While ye’re hangin’ onto the rope.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">An’ soon ye’ll lave home</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To thravel to Rome,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For its bound to Canossa ye are.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Persistin’ to shtay</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When ye’re ordered away⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bedad! that is goin’ too far!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="from-the-minutes" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">From the Minutes</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When, with the force of a ram that discharges its ponderous body</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Straight at the rear elevation of the luckless culler of simples,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The foot of Herculean Kilgore⁠—statesman of surname suggestive</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or carnage unspeakable!⁠—lit like a missile prodigious</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the Congressional door with a monstrous and mighty momentum,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Causing that vain ineffective bar to political freedom</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To fly from its hinges, effacing the nasal excrescence of Dingley,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That luckless one, decently veiling the ruin with ready bandanna,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lamented the loss of his eminence, sadly with sobs as follows:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Ah, why was I ever elected to the halls of legislation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So soon to be shown the door with pitiless emphasis? Truly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ve leaned on a broken Reed, and the same has gone back on me meanly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where now is my prominence, erstwhile in council conspicuous, patent?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alas, I did never before understand what I now see clearly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To wit, that Democracy tends to level all human distinctions!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="woman-in-politics" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Woman in Politics</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What, madam, run for School Director? You?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And want my vote and influence? Well, well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That beats me! Gad! where <em>are</em> we coming to?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In all my life I never have heard tell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of such sublime presumption, and I smell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A nigger in the fence! Excuse me, madam;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We statesmen sometimes speak like the old Adam.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But now you mention it⁠—well, well, who knows?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We might, that’s certain, give the sex a show.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have a cousin⁠—teacher. I suppose</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If I stand in and you’re elected⁠—no?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You’ll make no bargains? That’s a pretty go!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But understand that school administration</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Belongs to politics, not education.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We’ll pass the teacher deal; but it were wise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To understand each other at the start.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You know my business⁠—books and school supplies;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You’d hardly, if elected, have the heart</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Some small advantage to deny me⁠—part</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of all my profits to be yours. What? “Stealing”?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Please don’t express yourself with so much feeling.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You pain me, truly. Now one question more.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Suppose a fair young man should ask a place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As teacher⁠—would you (pardon) shut the door</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of the Department in his handsome face</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Until⁠—I know not how to put the case⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Would you extort a kiss to pay your favor?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Good Lord! you laugh? I thought the matter graver.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Well, well, we can’t do business, I suspect:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A woman has no head for politics.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My profitable offers you reject</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And will not promise anything to fix</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Things right that civic saints and angels mix.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Good morning. Stay⁠—I’m chaffing you, conceitedly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Madam, I mean to vote for you⁠—repeatedly.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-ballad-of-pikeville" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Ballad of Pikeville</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Down in Southern Arizona where the Gila monster thrives,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the “Mescalero,” gifted with a hundred thousand lives,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every hour renounces one of them by drinking liquid flame⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The assassinating wassail that has given him his name;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the enterprising dealer in Caucasian hair is seen</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hold his harvest festival upon his village-green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While the late lamented tenderfoot upon the plain is spread</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a sanguinary circle on the summit of his head;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where the cactuses (or cacti) lift their lances in the sun,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And incautious jackass-rabbits come to sorrow as they run,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lived a colony of settlers⁠—old Missouri was the State</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where they formerly resided at a prehistoric date.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now, the spot that had been chosen for this colonizing scheme</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was as waterless, believe me, as an Arizona stream.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The soil was naught but ashes, by the breezes driven free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And an acre and a quarter were required to sprout a pea.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So agriculture languished, for the land would not produce,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And for lack of water, whisky was the beverage in use⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Costly whisky, hauled in wagons many a weary, weary day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mostly needed by the drivers to sustain them on their way.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wicked whisky! King of Evils! Why, O, why did God create</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such a curse and thrust it on us in our inoffensive state?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Once a parson came among them, and a holy man was he;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With his ailing stomach whisky wouldn’t anywise agree;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So he knelt upon the <i xml:lang="es">mesa</i> and he prayed with all his chin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That the Lord would send them water or incline their hearts to gin.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Scarcely was the prayer concluded ere an earthquake shook the land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with copious effusion springs burst out on every hand!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Merrily the waters gurgled, and the shock which gave them birth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fitly was by some declared a temperance movement of the earth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Astounded by the miracle, the people met that night</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To celebrate it properly by some religious rite;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ’tis truthfully recorded that before the moon had sunk</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every man and every woman was devotionally drunk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A half a standard gallon (says history) per head</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the best Kentucky prime was at that ceremony shed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, the glory of that country! O, the happy, happy folk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the might of prayer delivered from Nature’s broken yoke!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lo! the plains to the horizon all are yellowing with rye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the corn upon the hill-top lifts its banners to the sky!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gone the wagons, gone the drivers, and the road is grown to grass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Over which the incalescent Bourbon did aforetime pass.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pikeville (that’s the name they’ve given, in their wild, romantic way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To that irrigation district) now distills, statistics say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Something like a hundred gallons, out of each recurrent crop,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the head of population⁠—and consumes it, every drop!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="convalescent-2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Convalescent</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“By good men’s prayers see Grant restored!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shouts Talmage, pious creature!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yes, God, by supplication bored</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From every droning preacher,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exclaimed: “So be it, tiresome crew⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I’ve a crow to pick with <em>you</em>.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-augury" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Augury</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Upon my desk a single spray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With starry blossoms fraught.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I write in many an idle way,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thinking one serious thought.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O flowers, a fine Greek name ye bear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And with a fine Greek grace.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Be still, O heart, that turns to share</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sunshine of a face.)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Have ye no messages⁠—no brief,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Still sign: ‘Despair,’ or ‘Hope’?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A sudden stir of stem and leaf⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A breath of heliotrope!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="lusus-politicus" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Lusus Politicus</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Come in, old gentleman. How do you do?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Delighted, I’m sure, that you’ve called.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m a sociable sort of a chap and you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are a pleasant-appearing person, too,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With a head agreeably bald.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That’s right⁠—sit down in the scuttle of coal</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And put up your feet in a chair.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">It is better to have them there:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And I’ve always said that a hat of lead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Such as I see you wear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was a better hat than a hat of glass.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And your boots of brass</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are a natural kind of boots, I swear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“May you blow your nose on a paper of pins?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Why, certainly, man, why not?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I rather expected you’d do it before,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When I saw you poking it in at the door.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">It’s dev’lish hot⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The weather, I mean. “You are twins”?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why, that was evident at the start,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From the way that you paint your head</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In stripes of purple and red,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">With dots of yellow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">That proves you a fellow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With a love of legitimate art.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You’ve bitten a snake and are feeling bad”?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">That’s very sad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But Longfellow’s words I beg to recall:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your lot is the common lot of all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Horses are trees and the moon is a sneeze”?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That, I fancy, is just as you please.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some think that way and others hold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The contrary view;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">I never quite knew,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">For the matter o’ that,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When everything’s been said⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">May I offer this mat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If you <em>will</em> stand on your head?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I suppose I look to be upside down</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From your present point of view.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s a giddy old world, from king to clown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And a topsy-turvy, too.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But, worthy and now uninverted old man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>You’re</em> built, at least, on a normal plan</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">If ever a truth I spoke.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i4">Smoke?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Your air and conversation</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Are a liberal education,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And your clothes, including the metal hat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the brazen boots⁠—what’s that?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“You never could stomach a Democrat</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Since General Jackson ran?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’re another sort, but you predict</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That your party’ll get consummately licked?”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Good God! what a queer old man!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="bereavement" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Bereavement</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A Countess (so they tell the tale)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who dwelt of old in Arno’s vale,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where ladies, even of high degree,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Know more of love than of A. B. C,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came once with a prodigious bribe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unto the learned village scribe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That most discreet and honest man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who wrote for all the lover clan,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor e’er a secret had betrayed⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save when inadequately paid.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Write me,” she sobbed⁠—“I pray thee do⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A book about the Prince di Giu⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A book of poetry in praise</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of all his works and all his ways;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The godlike grace of his address,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His more than woman’s tenderness,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His courage stern and lack of guile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The loves that wantoned in his smile.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So great he was, so rich and kind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll not within a fortnight find</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His equal as a lover. O,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My God! I shall be drowned in woe!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“What! Prince di Giu has died!” exclaimed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The honest man for letters famed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The while he pocketed her gold;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Of what’?⁠—if I may be so bold.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fresh storms of tears the lady shed:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“I stabbed him fifty times,” she said.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-pickbrain" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Pickbrain</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What! imitate me, friend? Suppose that you</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With agony and difficulty do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What I do easily⁠—what then? You’ve got</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A style I heartily wish <em>I</em> had not.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If I from lack of sense and you from choice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grieve the judicious and the unwise rejoice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No equal censure our deserts will suit⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We both are fools, but you’re an ape to boot!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-naval-constructor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Naval Constructor</h3>
				<p>
					<span>He looked upon the ships as they</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All idly lay at anchor,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their sides with gorgeous workmen gay⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The riveter and planker⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Republicans and Democrats,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Statesmen and politicians.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He saw the swarm of prudent rats</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Swimming for land positions.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He marked each “belted cruiser” fine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Her poddy life-belts floating</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In tether where the hungry brine</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Impinged upon her coating.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He noted with a proud regard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As any of his class would,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The poplar mast and poplar yard</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Above the hull of bass-wood.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He saw the Eastlake frigate tall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With quaintly carven gable,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hip-roof and dormer-window⁠—all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With ivy formidable.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In short, he saw our country’s hope</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In best of all conditions⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Equipped, to the last spar and rope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By working politicians.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He boarded then the noblest ship</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And from the harbor glided.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Adieu, adieu!” fell from his lip.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Verdict: “He suicided.”</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1881">1881</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="detected" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Detected</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In Congress once great Mowther shone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Debating weighty matters;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now into an asylum thrown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He vacuously chatters.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If in that legislative hall</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His wisdom still he’d vented,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It never had been known at all</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That Mowther was demented.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="bimetalism" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Bimetalism</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Ben Bulger was a silver man,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though not a mine had he:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He thought it were a noble plan</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To make the coinage free.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“There hain’t for years been sech a time,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Said Ben to his bull pup,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“For biz⁠—the country’s broke and I’m</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The hardest kind of up.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“The paper says that that’s because</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The silver coins is sea’ce,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that the chaps which makes the laws</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Puts gold ones in their place.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“They says them nations always be</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Most prosperatin’ where</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wolume of the currency</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Ain’t so disgustin’ rare.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His dog, which hadn’t breakfasted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dissented from his view,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And wished that he could swell, instead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The volume of cold stew.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Nobody’d put me up,” said Ben,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“With patriot galoots</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which benefits their feller men</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By playin’ warious roots;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“But havin’ all the tools about,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I’m goin’ to commence</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A-turnin’ silver dollars out</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Wuth eighty-seven cents.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“The feller takin’ ’em can’t whine:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(No more, likewise, can I):</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They’re better than the genooine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Which mostly satisfy.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“It’s only makin’ coinage free,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And mebby might augment</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wolume of the currency</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A noomerous per cent.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I don’t quite see his error nor</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Malevolence prepense,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But fifteen years they gave him for</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That technical offense.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-rich-testator" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Rich Testator</h3>
				<p>
					<span>He lay on his bed and solemnly “signed,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gasping⁠—perhaps ’twas a jest he meant:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“This of a sound and disposing mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is the last ill-will and contestament.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="two-methods" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Two Methods</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To bucks and ewes by the Good Shepherd fed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Priest delivers masses for the dead,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And even from estrays outside the fold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death for the masses he would not withhold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Parson, loth alike to free or kill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forsakes the souls already on the grill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, God’s prerogative of mercy shamming,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spares living sinners for a harder damning.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="foundations-of-the-state" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Foundations of the State</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Observe, dear Lord, what lively pranks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are played by sentimental cranks!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>First this one mounts his hinder hoofs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And brays the chimneys off the roofs;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Then that one, with exalted voice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Expounds the thesis of his choice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our understandings to bombard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till all the window panes are starred!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A third augments the vocal shock</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till steeples to their bases rock,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Confessing, as they humbly nod,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They hear and mark the will of God.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A fourth in oral thunder vents</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His awful penury of sense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till dogs with sympathetic howls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lowing cows, and cackling fowls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hens, geese, and all domestic birds,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Attest the wisdom of his words.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cranks thus their intellects deflate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of theories about the State.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This one avers ’tis built on Truth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And that on Temperance. This youth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Declares that Science bears the pile;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That graybeard, with a holy smile,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Says Faith is the supporting stone;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While women swear that Love alone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Could so unflinchingly endure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The heavy load. And some are sure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The solemn vow of Christian Wedlock</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is the indubitable bedrock.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Physicians once about the bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of one whose life was nearly sped</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blew up a disputatious breeze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>About the cause of his disease:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This, that and t’ other thing they blamed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Tut, tut!” the dying man exclaimed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“What made me ill I do not care;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’ve not an ounce of it, I’ll swear.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And if you had the skill to make it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’d see you hanged before I’d take it!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-imposter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Imposter</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Must you, Carnegie, evermore explain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your worth, and all the reasons give again</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why black and red are similarly white,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you and God identically right?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Still must our ears without redress submit</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hear you play the solemn hypocrite</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Walking in spirit some high moral level,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Raising at once his eye-balls and the devil?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Great King of Cant! if Nature had but made</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your mouth without a tongue I ne’er had prayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To have an earless head. Since she did not,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Bear me, ye whirlwinds, to some favored spot⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some mountain pinnacle that sleeps in air</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So delicately, mercifully rare</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That when the fellow climbs that giddy hill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As, for my sins, I know at last he will,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To utter twaddle in that void inane</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His soundless organ he will play in vain.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="france" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">France</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Unhappy State! with horrors still to strive:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy Hugo dead, thy Boulanger alive;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A Prince who’d govern where he dares not dwell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And who for power would his birthright sell⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who, anxious o’er his enemies to reign,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Grabs at the scepter and conceals the chain;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While pugnant factions mutually strive</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By cutting throats to keep the land alive.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Perverse in passion, as in pride perverse⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To all a mistress, to thyself a curse;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweetheart of Europe! every sun’s embrace</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Matures the charm and poison of thy grace.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet time to thee nor peace nor wisdom brings:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In blood of citizens and blood of kings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The stones of thy stability are set,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the fair fabric trembles at a threat.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-guest" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Guest</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Death, are you well? I trust you have no cough</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That’s painful or in any way annoying⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No kidney trouble that may carry you off,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or heart disease to keep you from enjoying</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Your meals⁠—and ours. ’Twere very sad indeed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To have to quit the busy life you lead.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>You’ve been quite active lately for so old</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A person, and not very strong-appearing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m apprehensive, somehow, that my bold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Bad brother gave you trouble in the spearing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my two friends⁠—I fear, sir, that you ran</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Quite hard for them, especially the man.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I crave your pardon: ’twas no fault of mine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If you are overworked I’m sorry, very.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come in, old man, and have a glass of wine.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What shall it be⁠—madeira, port or sherry?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What! just a mug of blood? That’s funny grog</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To ask a friend for, eh? Well, take it, hog!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-false-prophecy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A False Prophecy</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Dom Pedro, Emperor of far Brazil</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Whence coffee comes and the three-cornered nut),</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They say that you’re imperially ill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And threatened with paralysis. Tut-tut!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though Emperors are mortal, nothing but</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A nimble thunderbolt could catch and kill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man predestined to depart this life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the assassin’s bullet, bomb or knife.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sir, once there was a President who freed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Four million slaves; and once there was a Czar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who freed ten times as many serfs. Sins breed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The means of punishment, and tyrants are</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hurled headlong out of the triumphal car</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If faster than the law allows they speed.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lincoln and Alexander struck a rut;</span>
					<br/>
					<span><em>You</em> freed slaves too. Paralysis⁠—tut-tut!</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1885">1885</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="a-song-of-the-many" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Song of the Many</h3>
				<p>
					<span>God’s people sorely were oppressed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I heard their lamentations long;⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I hear their singing, clear and strong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I see their banners in the West!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The captains shout the battle-cry,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The legions muster in their might;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They turn their faces to the light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They lift their arms, they testify:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“We sank beneath the Master’s thong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our chafing chains were ne’er undone;⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Now clash your lances in the sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And bless your banners with a song!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“God bides His time with patient eyes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">While tyrants build upon the land;⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He lifts His face, he lifts His hand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And from the stones His temples rise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Now Freedom waves her joyous wing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Beyond the foemen’s shields of gold.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">March forward, singing, for, behold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The right shall rule while God is King!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="one-morning" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">One Morning</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Because that I am weak, my love, and ill,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I cannot follow the impatient feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of my desire, but sit and watch the beat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the unpitying pendulum fulfill</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The hour appointed for the air to thrill</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And brighten at your coming. O my sweet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The tale of moments is at last complete⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tryst is broken on the gusty hill!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O lady, faithful-footed, loyal-eyed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The long leagues silence me; yet doubt me not;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Think rather that the clock and sun have lied</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And all too early, you have sought the spot.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For lo! despair has darkened all the light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And till I see your face it still is night.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-king-of-bores" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The King of Bores</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Abundant bores afflict this world, and some</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Are bores of magnitude that-come and⁠—no,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They’re always coming, but they never go⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like funeral pageants, as they drone and hum</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their lurid nonsense like a muffled drum,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or bagpipe’s dread unnecessary flow.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But one superb tormentor I can show⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prince Fiddlefaddle, Duc de Feefawfum.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He the johndonkey is who, when I pen</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Amorous verses in an idle mood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To nobody, or of her, reads them through</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, smirking, says he knows the lady; then</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Calls me sly dog. I wish he understood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">This tender sonnet’s application too.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="history" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">History</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What wrecked the Roman power? One says vice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Another indolence, another dice.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Emascle says polygamy. “Not so,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Says Impycu⁠—“ ’twas luxury and show.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The parson, lifting up a brow of brass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swears superstition gave the <i xml:lang="la">coup de grâce</i>,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Great Allison, the statesman-chap affirms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas lack of coins (croaks Medico: “ ’Twas worms!”)⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And John <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">P.</abbr> Jones the swift suggestion collars,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Averring the no coins were silver dollars.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thus, through the ages, each presuming quack</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Turns the poor corpse upon its rotten back,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Holds a new “autopsy” and finds that death</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Resulted partly from the want of breath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But chiefly from some visitation sad</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That points his argument or serves his fad.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They’re all in error⁠—never human mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cause of the disaster has divined.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What slew the Roman power? Well, provided</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You’ll keep the secret, I will tell you. I did.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-hermit" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Hermit</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To a hunter from the city,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Overtaken by the night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spake, in tones of tender pity</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For himself, an aged wight:</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I have found the world a fountain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of deceit and Life a sham.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I have taken to the mountain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And a Holy Hermit am.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Sternly bent on Contemplation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Far apart from human kind⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the hill my habitation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In the Infinite my mind.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Ten long years I’ve lived a dumb thing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Growing bald and bent with dole.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vainly seeking for a Something</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To engage my gloomy soul.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Gentle Pilgrim, while my roots you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Eat, and quaff my simple drink,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Please suggest whatever suits you</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As a Theme for me to Think.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then the hunter answered gravely:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“From distraction free, and strife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You could ponder very bravely</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">On the Vanity of Life.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O, thou wise and learned Teacher,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You have solved the Problem well⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You have saved a grateful creature</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From the agonies of hell.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Take another root, another</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Cup of water: eat and drink.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now I have a Subject, brother,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Tell me What, and How, to think.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-yearly-lie" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Yearly Lie</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A merry Christmas? Prudent, as I live!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You wish me something that you need not give.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Merry or sad, what does it signify?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To you ’tis equal if I laugh, or die.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Your hollow greeting, like a parrot’s jest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Finds all its meaning in the ear addressed.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Why “merry” Christmas? Faith, I’d rather frown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Than grin and caper like a tickled clown.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When fools are merry the judicious weep;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The wise are happy only when asleep.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A present? Pray you give it to disarm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A man more powerful to do you harm.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Twas not your motive? Well, I cannot let</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You pay for favors that you’ll never get.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Perish the savage custom of the gift,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Founded in terror and maintained in thrift!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What men of honor need to aid their weal</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They purchase, or, occasion serving, steal.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Go celebrate the day with turkeys, pies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sermons and psalms, and, for the children, lies.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let Santa Claus descend again the flue;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If Baby doubt it, swear that it is true.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“A lie well stuck to is as good as truth,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And God’s too old to legislate for youth.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Hail Christmas! On my knees and fowl I fall:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For greater grace and better gravy call.</span>
					<br/>
					<span><i xml:lang="fr">Vive l’Humbug!</i>⁠—that’s to say, God bless us all!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-apologue" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Apologue</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A traveler observed one day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A loaded fruit-tree by the way.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And reining in his horse exclaimed:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“The man is greatly to be blamed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who, careless of good morals, leaves</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Temptation in the way of thieves.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now lest some villain pass this way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And by this fruit be led astray</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To bag it, I will kindly pack</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It snugly in my saddle-sack.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He did so; then that Salt o’ the Earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Rode on, rejoicing in his worth.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="diagnosis" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Diagnosis</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Cried Allen Forman: “Doctor, pray</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Compose my spirits’ strife:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O what may be my chances, say,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of living all my life?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“For lately I have dreamed of high</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And hempen dissolution!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O doctor, doctor, how can I</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Amend my constitution?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The learned leech replied: “You’re young</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And beautiful and strong⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Permit me to inspect your tongue:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">H’m, ah, ahem!⁠—’tis long.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="fallen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Fallen</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O, hadst thou died when thou wert great,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">When at thy feet a nation knelt</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To sob the gratitude it felt</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And thank the Saviour of the State,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gods might have envied thee thy fate!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then was the laurel round thy brow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And friend and foe spoke praise of thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">While all our hearts sang victory.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alas! thou art too base to bow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hide the shame that brands it now.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="dies-irae" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<hgroup>
						<h3 epub:type="title" xml:lang="la">Dies Irӕ</h3>
						<h4 epub:type="subtitle">The Day of Wrath</h4>
					</hgroup>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>A recent republication of the late <abbr>Gen.</abbr> John <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A.</abbr> Dix’s disappointing translation of this famous medieval hymn, together with some researches into its history, which I happened to be making at the time, induces me to undertake a translation myself. It may seem presumption in me to attempt that which so many eminent scholars of so many generations have attempted before me; but failure of others encourages me to hope that success, being still unachieved, is still achievable. The fault of previous translations, from Lord Macaulay’s to that of <abbr>Gen.</abbr> Dix, has been, I venture to think, a too strict literalness, whereby the delicate irony and subtle humor of the immortal poem⁠—though doubtless these admirable qualities were well appreciated by the translators⁠—have been sacrificed in the result. In none of the English versions that I have examined is more than a trace of the mocking spirit of insincerity pervading the whole prayer⁠—the cool effrontery of the suppliant in enumerating his demerits, his serenely illogical demands of salvation in spite, or rather because, of them, his meek submission to the punishment of others, and the many similarly pleasing characteristics of this amusing work being most imperfectly conveyed. By permitting myself a reasonable freedom of rendering⁠—in many cases boldly supplying that “missing link” between the sublime and the ridiculous which the author, writing for the acute monkish apprehension of the thirteenth century, did not deem it necessary to insert⁠—I have hoped at least partly to liberate the lurking devil of humor from his letters, letting him caper, not, certainly, as he does in the Latin, but as he probably would have done had his creator written in English. In preserving the metre and trochaic rhymes of the original, I have acted from the same reverent regard for the music with which, in the liturgy of the Church, the verses have become inseparably wedded that inspired <abbr>Gen.</abbr> Dix; seeking rather to surmount the obstacles to success by honest effort, than to avoid them by adopting an easier versification which would have deprived my version of all utility in religious service.</p>
						<p>I must bespeak the reader’s charitable consideration in respect of the first stanza, the insuperable difficulties of which seem to have been purposely contrived in order to warn off trespassers at the very boundary of the alluring domain. I have got over the inhibition⁠—somehow⁠—but David and the Sibyl must try to forgive me if they find themselves represented merely by the names of those conspicuous personal qualities to which they probably owed their powers of prophecy, as Samson’s strength lay in his hair.</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Day of Satan’s painful duty!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Earth shall vanish, hot and sooty;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So says Virtue, so says Beauty.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ah! what terror shall be shaping</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the Judge the truth’s undraping⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Cats from every bag escaping!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now the trumpet’s invocation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Calls the dead to condemnation;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All receive an invitation.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Death and Nature now are quaking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the late lamented, waking,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In their breezy shrouds are shaking.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Lo! the Ledger’s leaves are stirring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the Clerk, to them referring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Makes it awkward for the erring.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When the Judge appears in session,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We shall all attend confession,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Loudly preaching non-suppression.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>How shall I then make romances</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mitigating circumstances?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Even the just must take their chances.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>King whose majesty amazes.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save thou him who sings thy praises;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fountain, quench my private blazes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Pray remember, sacred Savior,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mine the playful hand that gave your</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Death-blow. Pardon such behavior.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Seeking me, fatigue assailed thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Calvary’s outlook naught availed thee;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now ’twere cruel if I failed thee.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Righteous judge and learned brother,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pray thy prejudices smother</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ere we meet to try each other.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Sighs of guilt my conscience gushes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And my face vermilion flushes;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spare me for my pretty blushes.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Thief and harlot, when repenting,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou forgavest⁠—complimenting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Me with sign of like relenting.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If too bold is my petition</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll receive with due submission</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My dismissal⁠—from perdition.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When thy sheep thou hast selected</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the goats, may I, respected,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stand amongst them undetected.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When offenders are indicted,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And with trial-flames ignited,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Elsewhere I’ll attend if cited.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ashen-hearted, prone, and prayerful,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When of death I see the air full,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lest I perish too, be careful.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>On that day of lamentation,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When, to enjoy the conflagration.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men come forth, O, be not cruel:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Spare me, Lord⁠—make them thy fuel.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="one-moods-expression" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">One Mood’s Expression</h3>
				<p>
					<span>See, Lord, fanatics all arrayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">For revolution!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To foil their villainous crusade</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unsheathe again the sacred blade</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Of persecution.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>What though through long disuse ’tis grown</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">A trifle rusty?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Gainst modern heresy, whose bone</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is rotten, and the flesh fly-blown,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">It still is trusty.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Of sterner stuff thine ancient foes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Unapprehensive,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sprang forth to meet thy biting blows;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our zealots chiefly to the nose</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Assume the offensive.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Then wield the blade their necks to hack,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">Nor ever spare one.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy crowns of martyrdom unpack,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But see that every martyr lack</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i3">The head to wear one.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="something-in-the-papers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Something in the Papers</h3>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">“What’s in the paper?” Oh, it’s dev’lish dull:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There’s nothing happening at all⁠—a lull</span>
					<br/>
					<span>After the war-storm. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Someone’s wife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Killed by her lover with, I think, a knife.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A fire on Blank Street and some babies⁠—one,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Two, three or four, I don’t remember, done</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To quite a delicate and lovely brown.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A husband shot by woman of the town⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The same old story. Shipwreck somewhere south.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The crew, all saved⁠—or lost. Uncommon drouth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Makes hundreds homeless up the River Mud⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though, come to think, I guess it was a flood.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis feared some bank will burst⁠—or else it won’t</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They always burst, I fancy⁠—or they don’t;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who cares a cent?⁠—the banker pays his coin</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And takes his chances: bullet in the groin⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But that’s another item⁠—suicide⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Fool lost his money (serve him right) and died.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Heigh-ho! there’s noth⁠—Jerusalem! what’s this:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tom Jones has failed! My God, what an abyss</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of ruin!⁠—owes me seven hundred clear!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was ever such a damned disastrous year!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-binnacle" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">The Binnacle</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>The Church possesses the unerring compass whose needle points directly and persistently to the star of the eternal law of God.</p>
						<cite>—⁠<i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Religious Weekly</i></cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>The Church’s compass, if you please,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Has two or three (or more) degrees</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of variation;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And many a soul has gone to grief</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On this or that or t’other reef</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through faith unreckoning or brief</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Miscalculation.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Misguidance is of perils chief</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To navigation.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The obsequious thing makes, too, you’ll mark,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Obeisance through a little arc</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Of declination;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Satan, fearing witches, drew</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Death’s pale horse, one day, a shoe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And nailed it to his door to undo</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Their machination.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since then the needle dips to woo</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">His habitation.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="one-president" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">One President</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“What are those, father?” “Statesmen, my child⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lacrymose, unparliamentary, wild.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“What are they that way for, father?” “Last fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>‘Our candidate’s better,’ they said, ‘than all!’ ”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“What did they say he was, father?” “A man</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Built on a straight incorruptible plan⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Believing that none for an office would do</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unless he were honest and capable too.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Poor gentlemen⁠—<em>so</em> disappointed!” “Yes, lad,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That is the feeling that’s driving them mad;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They’re weeping and wailing and gnashing because</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They find that he’s all that they said that he was.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-bride" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Bride</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“You know, my friends, with what a brave carouse</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I made a second marriage in my house⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Divorced old barren Reason from my bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And took the Daughter of the Vine to spouse.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So sang the Lord of Poets. In a gleam</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of light that made her like an angel seem,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Daughter of the Vine said: “I myself</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Am Reason, and the Other was a Dream.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-man-born-blind" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Man Born Blind</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A man born blind received his sight</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By a painful operation;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And these are things he saw in the light</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of an infant observation.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He saw a merchant, good and wise.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And greatly, too, respected,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who looked, to those imperfect eyes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like a swindler undetected.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He saw a patriot address</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A noisy public meeting.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And said: “Why, that’s a calf. I guess.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That for the teat is bleating.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A doctor stood beside a bed</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And shook his summit sadly.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“O see that foul assassin!” said</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The man who saw so badly.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He saw a lawyer pleading for</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A thief whom they’d been jailing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And said: “That’s an accomplice, or</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My sight again is failing.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Upon the Bench a Justice sat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With nothing to restrain him;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“ ’Tis strange,” said the observer, “that</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">They ventured to unchain him.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With theologic works supplied,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He saw a solemn preacher;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“A burglar with his kit,” he cried,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“To rob a fellow creature.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A bluff old farmer next he saw</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sell produce in a village,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And said: “What, what! is there no law</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To punish men for pillage?”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A dame, tall, fair and stately, passed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who many charms united;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He thanked his stars his lot was cast</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where sepulchers were whited.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He saw a soldier stiff and stern,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Full of strange oaths” and toddy;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But was unable to discern</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A wound upon his body.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Ten square leagues of rolling ground</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To one great man belonging,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Looked like one little grassy mound</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With worms beneath it thronging.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A palace’s well-carven stones,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where Dives dwelt contented,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Seemed built throughout of human bones</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With human blood cemented.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He watched the yellow shining thread</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A silk-worm was a-spinning;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“That creature’s coining gold,” he said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“To pay some girl for sinning.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>His eyes were so untrained and dim</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All politics, religions,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arts, sciences, appeared to him</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But modes of plucking pigeons.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And so he drew his final breath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And thought he saw with sorrow</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Some persons weeping for his death</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who’d be all smiles to-morrow.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-nightmare" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Nightmare</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I dreamed that I was dead. The years went by:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The world forgot that such a man as I</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Had ever lived and written: other names</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were hailed with homage, in their turn to die.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Out of my grave a giant beech upgrew.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its roots transpierced my body, through and through,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My substance fed its growth. From many lands</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men came in troops that giant tree to view.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Twas sacred to my memory and fame⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My monument. But Allen Forman came,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Filled with the fervor of a new untruth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And carved upon the trunk his odious name!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-wet-season" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">A Wet Season</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph" xml:lang="la">
						<p>Horas non numero nisi serenas.</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>The rain is fierce, it flogs the earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And man’s in danger.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O that my mother at my birth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Had borne a stranger!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flooded ground is all around.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The depth uncommon.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How blest I’d be if only she</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Had borne a salmon.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If still denied the solar glow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">’Twere bliss ecstatic</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To be amphibious⁠—but O,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To be aquatic!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We’re worms, men say, o’ the dust, and they</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">That faith are firm of.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, then, be just: show me some dust</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">To be a worm of.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The pines are chanting overhead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">A psalm uncheering.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It’s O, to have been for ages dead</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">And hard of hearing!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Restore, ye Pow’rs, the last bright hours</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">The dial reckoned;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas in the time of Egypt’s prime⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i2">Rameses <span epub:type="z3998:roman">II</span>.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-confederate-flags" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Confederate Flags</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Tut-tut! give back the flags⁠—how can you care</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You veterans and heroes?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why should you at a kind intention swear</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Like twenty Neroes?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Suppose the act was not so overwise⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Suppose it was illegal⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is’t well on such a question to arise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And pinch the Eagle?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Nay, let’s economize his breath to scold</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And terrify the alien</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who tackles him, as Hercules of old</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The bird Stymphalian.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Among the rebels when we made a breach</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Was it to get their banners?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That was but incidental⁠—’twas to teach</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Them better manners.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They know the lesson well enough to-day;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Now, let us try to show them</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That we’re not only stronger far than they.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">(How we did mow them!)</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But more magnanimous. My lads, ’tis plain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">’Twas an uncommon riot;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The warlike tribes of Europe fight for gain</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">We fought for quiet.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If we were victors, then we all must live</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With the same flag above us;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas all in vain unless we now forgive</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And make them love us.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let kings keep trophies to display above</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Their doors like any savage;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The freeman’s trophy is the foeman’s love,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Despite war’s ravage.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“Make treason odious?” My friends, you’ll find</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">You can’t, in right and reason,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While “Washington” and “treason” are combined⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“Hugo” and “treason.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>All human governments must take the chance</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And hazard of sedition.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, wretch! to pledge your manhood in advance</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To blind submission.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It may be wrong, it may be right, to rise</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In warlike insurrection:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The loyalty that fools so dearly prize</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">May mean subjection.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Be loyal to your country, yes⁠—but how</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If tyrants hold dominion?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The South believed they did; can’t you allow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For that opinion?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He who will never rise though rulers plods</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His liberties despising</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How is he manlier than the <i xml:lang="fr">sans-culottes</i></span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Who’s always rising?</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Give back the foolish flags whose bearers fell</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Too valiant to forsake them.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is it presumptuous, this counsel? Well,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I helped to take them.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p><time datetime="1891">1891</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="haec-fabula-docet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title" xml:lang="la">Hӕc Fabula Docet</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A rat who’d gorged a box of bane</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And suffered an internal pain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Came from his hole to die (the label</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Required it if the rat were able)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And found outside his habitat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A limpid stream. Of bane and rat</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twas all unconscious; in the sun</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It ran and prattled just for fun.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Keen to allay his inward throes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The beast immersed his filthy nose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And drank⁠—then, bloated by the stream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And filled with superheated steam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exploded with a rascal smell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Remarking, as his fragments fell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Astonished in the brook: “I’m thinking</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This water’s damned unwholesome drinking!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="again" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Again</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Well, I’ve met her again⁠—at the Mission.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She’d told me to see her no more;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It was not a command⁠—a petition;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I’d granted it once before.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Yes, granted it, hoping she’d write me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Repenting her virtuous freak⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Subdued myself daily and nightly</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For the better part of a week.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And then (’twas my duty to spare her</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The shame of recalling me) I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just sought her again to prepare her</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For an everlasting good-bye.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O, that evening of bliss⁠—shall I ever</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Cease living it over?⁠—although</span>
					<br/>
					<span>She said, when ’twas ended: “You’re never</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To see me again. And now go.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As we parted with kisses ’twas human</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And natural for me to smile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As I thought, “She’s in love, and a woman:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">She’ll send for me after a while.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But she didn’t; and so⁠—well, the Mission</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is fine, picturesque and gray;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis an excellent place for contrition⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And sometimes she passes that way.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That’s how it occurred that I met her,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And that’s all there is to tell⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Except that I’d like to forget her</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Calm way of remarking: “I’m well.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>It was hardly worth while, all this keying</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">My soul to such tensions and stirs</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To learn that her food was agreeing</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With that little stomach of hers.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="homo-podunkensis" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Homo Podunkensis</h3>
				<p>
					<span>As the poor ass that from his paddock strays</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Might sound abroad his field-companions’ praise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Recounting volubly their well-bred leer,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Their port impressive and their wealth of ear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mistaking for the world’s assent the clang</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of echoes mocking his accurst harangue;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So the dull clown, untraveled though at large,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Visits the city on the ocean’s marge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Expands his eyes and marvels to remark</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each coastwise schooner and each alien bark;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prates of “all nations,” wonders as he stares</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That native merchants sell imported wares,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor comprehends how in his very view</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A foreign vessel has a foreign crew;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet, faithful to the hamlet of his birth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Swears it superior to aught on earth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sighs for the temples locally renowned⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The village school-house and the village pound⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And chalks upon the palaces of Rome</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The peasant sentiments of “Home, Sweet Home!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-social-call" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Social Call</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Well, well, old Father Christmas, is it you,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With your thick neck and thin pretense of virtue?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Less redness in the nose⁠—nay, even some blue</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Would not, I think, particularly hurt you.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When seen close to, not mounted in your car,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You look the drunkard and the pig you are.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No matter, sit you down, for I am not</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In a gray study, as you sometimes find me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Merry? O, no, nor wish to be, God wot,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But there’s another year of pain behind me.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That’s something to be thankful for: the more</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There are behind, the fewer are before.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I know you, Father Christmas, for a scamp,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But Heaven endowed me at my soul’s creation</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With an affinity to every tramp</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That walks the world and steals its admiration.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For admiration is like linen left</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the line⁠—got easiest by theft.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Good God! old man, just think of it! I’ve stood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With brains and honesty, some five-and-twenty</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Long years as champion of all that’s good,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And taken on the mazzard thwacks a-plenty.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet now whose praises do the people bawl?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those of the fellows whom I live to maul!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Why, this is odd!⁠—the more I try to talk</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of you the more my tongue grows egotistic</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To prattle of myself! I’ll try to balk</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Its waywardness and be more altruistic.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So let us speak of others⁠—how they sin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And what a devil of a state they’re in!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That’s all I have to say. Good-bye, old man.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Next year you possibly may find me scolding⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or miss me altogether: Nature’s plan</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Includes, as I suppose, a final folding</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of these poor empty hands. Then drop a tear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To think they’ll never box another ear.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="my-day-of-life" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">My Day of Life</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I know not how it is⁠—it seems</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fantastic and surprising</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That after all these dreams and dreams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here in the sun’s first level beams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sun is still just rising!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>When first he showed his sovereign face,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And bade the night-folk scuttle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Back to their holes, I took my place</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Here on the hill, and God His grace</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Sent slumber soft and subtle.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Among the poppies red and white,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I’ve lain and drowsed, for all it</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Appears a sluggardly delight.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I must have had a wakeful night,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Though, faith, I don’t recall it.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And, O I’ve dreamed so many things!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">One hardly can unravel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tangled web of visionings</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That slumber-of-the-morning brings:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Play, stu’dy, work and travel;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The love of women (mostly those</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Were fairest that were newest);</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hard knocks from friends and other foes:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Compacts with men (my memory shows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The deadest are the truest);</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>War⁠—what a hero I became</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By merely dreaming battle!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Athwart the field of letters, Fame</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blared through the brass my weary name</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With an ominous death-rattle.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Such an eternity of thought</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Within a minute’s fraction!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such phantoms out of nothing wrought,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And fading suddenly to naught</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As I awake to action!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>They scamper each into its hole,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">These dreams of my begetting.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They’ve had their moment; take, my soul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thy day of life.⁠ ⁠… Gods! this is droll⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That thieving sun is setting!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
