<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>The Scrap Heap</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="the-scrap-heap" epub:type="division">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Scrap Heap</h2>
			<article id="poesy-2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Poesy</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Successive bards pursue Ambition’s fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That shines, Oblivion, above thy mire.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The latest mounts his predecessor’s trunk,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sinks his brother ere himself is sunk.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So die ingloriously Fame’s <i xml:lang="fr">élite</i>,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But dams of dunces keep the line complete.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="hospitality" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Hospitality</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Why ask me, Gastrogogue, to dine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>(Unless to praise your rascal wine)</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet never ask some luckless sinner</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who needs, as I do not, a dinner?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="magnanimity" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Magnanimity</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“To the will of the people we loyally bow!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That’s the minority shibboleth now.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O noble antagonists, answer me flat⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What would you do if you didn’t do that?</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="understated" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Understated</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“I’m sorry I married,” says Upton Sinclair:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“The conjugal status is awful!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The devil’s device, a delusion and snare.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Worse, far worse than that⁠—it is lawful!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-attorney-general" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Attorney-General</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Philander Knox!⁠—I know him by the sound;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His sleep, unlike his learning, is profound.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No dreams of duty mar his loud repose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor strain the cobwebs tethering his nose,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which, roaring ever like the solemn sea.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Proclaims to all the world that this is he.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In thought a tortoise but in act a hare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slow to decide and impotent to dare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet no important crisis he ignores,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But sleeps upon it, and for action⁠—snores.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="financial-news" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Financial News</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Says Rockefeller: “Money is not tight,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And, faith, I’m thinking that the man is right.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If it were not, at least in morals, loose</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He hardly could command it for his use.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="aspiration" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Aspiration</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>No man can truthfully say that he would not like to be President.</p>
						<cite>William <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">C.</abbr> Whitney</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Lo! the wild rabbit, happy in the pride</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of qualities to meaner beasts denied,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Surveys the ass with reverence and fear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Adoring his superior length of ear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And says: “No living creature, lean or fat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But wishes in his heart to be like That!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="democracy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Democracy</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Let slaves and subjects with extolling psalms</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Before their sovereign execute salaams;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The freeman scorns one idol to adore⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Tom, Dick, and Harry and himself are four.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-enemy-to-law-and-order" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Enemy to Law and Order</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A is defrauded of his land by B,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who’s driven from the premises by C.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>D buys the place with coin of plundered E.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“That A’s an Anarchist!” says F to G.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="foresight" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Foresight</h3>
				<p>
					<span>An “actors’ cemetery”! Sure</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The devil never tires</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of planning places to procure</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The sticks to feed his fires.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-fair-division" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Fair Division</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Another Irish landlord gone to grass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slain by the bullets of the tenant class!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pray, good agrarians, what wrong requires</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Such foul redress? Between you and the squires</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All Ireland’s parted with an even hand⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For you have all the ire, they all the land.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-lacking-factor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Lacking Factor</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“You acted unwisely,” I cried, “as you see</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By the outcome.” He calmly eyed me:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“When choosing the course of my action,” said he,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“I had not the outcome to guide me.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-politician" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Politician</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“Let patriots manipulate</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tiller of the Ship of State;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be mine the humble, useful toil</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To work the tiller of the soil.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="elihu-root" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Elihu Root</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Stoop to a dirty trick or low misdeed?</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What, bend him from his moral skies to it?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No, no, not he! To serve his nature’s need</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">He may upon occasion rise to it.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-error" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Error</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“I never have been able to determine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Just how it is that the judicial ermine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is safely guarded from predacious vermin.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“It is not so, my friend: though in a garret</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis kept in camphor, and you often air it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The vermin will get into it and wear it.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="vanished-at-cock-crow" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Vanished at Cock-Crow</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“I’ve found the secret of your charm,” I said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Expounding with complacency my guess.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Alas! the charm, even as I named it, fled,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For all its secret was unconsciousness.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="woman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Woman</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Study good women and ignore the rest,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For he best knows the sex who knows the best.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-partisans-protest" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Partisan’s Protest</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O statesmen, what would you be at,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">With torches, flags and bands?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>You make me first throw up my hat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And then my hands.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-bequest-to-music" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Bequest to Music</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“Let music flourish!” So he said and died.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hark! ere he’s gone the minstrelsy begins:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The symphonies ascend, a swelling tide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Melodious thunders fill the welkin wide⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The grand old lawyers, chinning on their chins!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="oneiromancy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Oneiromancy</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I fell asleep and dreamed that I</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Was flung, like Vulcan, from the sky;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like him was lamed⁠—another part:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His leg was crippled and my heart.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I woke in time to see my love</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Conceal a letter in her glove.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="july-fourth" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">July Fourth</h3>
				<p>
					<span>God said: “Let there be noise.” The dawning fire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Independence gilded every spire.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-paradox" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Paradox</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“If life were not worth having,” said the preacher,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“ ’Twould have in suicide one pleasant feature.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“An error,” said the pessimist, “you’re making:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>What’s not worth having cannot be worth taking.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="reedified" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Reedified</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Lord of the tempest, pray refrain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From leveling this church again.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now in its doom, since so you’ve willed it,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We acquiesce. But <em>you’ll</em> rebuild it.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-bulletin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Bulletin</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“Lothario is very low,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">So all the doctors tell.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nay, nay, not <em>so</em>⁠—he will be, though,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">If ever he get well.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-inscription-2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">An Inscription</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
						<p>For a Statue of Napoleon</p>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>A famous conqueror, in battle brave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who robbed the cradle to supply the grave.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His reign laid quantities of human dust:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He fell upon the just and the unjust.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-erroneous-assumption" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Erroneous Assumption</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Good for he’s old? Ah, Youth, you do not dream</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How sweet the roses in the autumn seem!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-constructor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Constructor</h3>
				<p>
					<span>I saw the devil. He was working free⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A customs-house he builded by the sea.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Why do you this?” The devil raised his head:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Of churches I have built enough,” he said.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="god-complies" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">God Complies</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“By prayer see Megapomp restored,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shouts Martext, pious creature.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yes, God by supplication bored</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From every droning preacher.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Exclaimed: “So be it, tiresome crew;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I’e a crow to pick with you.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="in-articulo-mortis" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">In Articulo Mortis</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The paper presented he solemnly signed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Gasping⁠—perhaps ’twas a jest he meant:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“This of a sound and disposing mind</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is the last illwill and contestament.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-discoverers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Discoverers</h3>
				<p>
					<span>My! how my fame rings out in ever zone⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A thousand critics shouting: “He’s unknown!”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="unexpounded" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Unexpounded</h3>
				<p>
					<span>On Evidence, on Deeds, on Bills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On Copyhold, on Loans, on Wills,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lawyers great books indite;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The creaking of their busy quills</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">I’ve never heard on Right.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-eastern-question" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Eastern Question</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Looking across the line, the Grecian said:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“This border I will stain a Turkey red.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Moslem smiled securely and replied:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“No Greek has ever for his country dyed.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While thus each patriot guarded his frontier,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Powers stole all the country in his rear.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="two-types" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Two Types</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Courageous fool!⁠—the peril’s strength unknown.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Courageous man!⁠—so conscious of your own.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-a-critic-of-tennyson" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To a Critic of Tennyson</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Affronting fool, subdue your transient light;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When Wisdom’s dull dares Folly to be bright:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>If Genius stumble in the path to fame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis decency in dunces to go lame.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="cooperation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Cooperation</h3>
				<p>
					<span>No more the swindler singly seeks his prey;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To hunt in couples is the modern way⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A rascal, from the public to purloin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An honest man to hide away the coin.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="humility" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Humility</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Great poets fire the world with fagots big</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That make a crackling racket,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But I’m content with but a whispering twig</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To warm some single jacket.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="strained-relations" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Strained Relations</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Says England to Germany: “Africa’s ours.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Says Germany: “Ours, I opine.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Says Africa: “Tell me, delectable Powers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">What is it that ought to be mine?”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="exoneration" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Exoneration</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When men at candidacy don’t connive,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">From that suspicion if their friends would free ’em,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The teeth and nails with which they did not strive</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Should be exhibited in a museum.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="after-portsmouth" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">After Portsmouth</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Begirt with bombs that fall and flames that rise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Tsar, bewildered, stares. “Alas,” he cries,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Life withholds joy and death denies release!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Roosevelt would have me think this peace.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-voice-from-pekin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Voice from Pekin</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“ ‘Empress of China’! I nor rule nor reign:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I wear the purple but to hide the chain⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Free only to hold back the open door</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For foreign devils drunk upon my floor.”</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-pious-rite" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Pious Rite</h3>
				<p>
					<span>On Maunday Thursday, as was good and meet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The Emperor of Austria washed the feet</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of twelve poor men to show how humble he</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For twenty minutes of the year could be.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O Thou, who trackest tenants of the throne</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through moral quagmires, make them wash their own.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="justice-2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Justice</h3>
				<p>
					<span>She jilted me. I madly cried:</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">“The grave at least can hold her!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Reflecting then that if she died</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">’Twould stop her growing older,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I pitilessly sheathed the knife</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sternly sentenced her to life!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="at-the-beach" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">At the Beach</h3>
				<p>
					<span>List, England, to our words of scorn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For noblemen to title born!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet be thine eyes awhile depressed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For one has turned his prow to-west,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we, to catch his landing-line,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Are pickling all our shins in brine.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-infraction-of-the-rules" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Infraction of the Rules</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A duel in France, and the victor pursued</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By the dogs of the law, by the multitude,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By society’s fierce ill-will!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O what is the matter? The man was so rude,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That he made an attempt to kill I</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="conversely" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Conversely</h3>
				<p>
					<span>There’s grief in Belgrade, for no crown, it is said,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is found for King Peter in all of the town.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How sad that he’s lacking a crown for his head!</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">How sweet were he lacking a head for his crown!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-warning" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Warning</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Cried Age to Youth: “Abate your speed!⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The distance hither’s brief indeed.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But Youth pressed on without delay⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The shout had reached but half the way.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="psychographs" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Psychographs</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Says Gerald Massey: “When I write, a band</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of souls of the departed guides my hand.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How strange that poems cumbering our shelves,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Penned by immortal parts, have none themselves!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="for-wounds" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">For Wounds</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O bear me, gods, to some enchanted isle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where woman’s tears can antidote her smile.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="a-literary-method" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Literary Method</h3>
				<p>
					<span>His “Hoosier poems” Riley says he writes</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Upon an empty stomach. Heavenly Powers,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Feed him throat-full: for what the wretch indites</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Upon his empty stomach empties ours!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="back-to-nature" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Back to Nature</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Nathaniel, Julian, Hildegardy!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sure the stock is far from hardy,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the name once heard with awe</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now provokes the loud guffaw⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Hawthorne” in the memory dear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>“Haw-haw-hawthorne” in the ear!</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="rudolph-block" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Rudolph Block</h3>
				<p>
					<span>What parallel, neighbor, be pleased to expound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Twixt Belgium’s king and you may be found?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Why this: if the cable dispatches are true</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He lies on his deathbed. So would you.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="boycott" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Boycott</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“This thing’s a bomb,” said Gompers, lighting</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fuse; “ ’twill blow them all a kiting!”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Well, now ’tis shattered all to pieces.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Gompers but a spot of grease is.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-her" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To Her</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O, Sinner A, to me unknown</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be such a conscience as your own!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To ease it you to Sinner B</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Confess the sins of Sinner C.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="creation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Creation</h3>
				<p>
					<span>God dreamed⁠—the suns sprang flaming into place,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sailing worlds with many a venturous race!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He woke⁠—His smile alone illumined space.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="rebuke" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Rebuke</h3>
				<p>
					<span>When Admonition’s hand essays</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our greed to curse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its lifted finger oft displays</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Our missing purse.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="prayer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Prayer</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Fear not in any tongue to call</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Upon the Lord⁠—He’s skilled in all.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But if He answereth my plea</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He speaketh one unknown to me.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="the-long-fear" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Long Fear</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Noting the hangman’s frown and the law’s righteous rage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our murderers live in terror till they die of age.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="an-inspired-performance" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">An Inspired Performance</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The Devil troubled a pool of mud,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Vierick from out the smother</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Arose and to prove his royal blood</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Defamed his peasant mother.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Dear Devil, his poems⁠—we’ll suffer all those,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But do not again provoke him to prose.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="sepulture" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Sepulture</h3>
				<p>
					<span>“Let’s bury the hatchet,” said Miller to Platt;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Platt said to Miller: “I’ll gladly do that.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On its grave, Warner Miller, the grasses grow not,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But the wind in your hair whistles over the spot.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
