<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Uncollected Verse</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="uncollected-verse" epub:type="division">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Uncollected Verse</h2>
			<article id="basilica" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Basilica</h3>
				<p>
					<span>With aimless feet, along the verge</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of ocean, where the rocks emerge,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I strolled, and watched the baffled surge.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In sheltered channels at my feet,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The sleepy ripples crisping neat,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slid in and out with sluicy beat.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The groaning sea, wind-smitten white⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The day, shot through with throbbing light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lay palpitating on my sight.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>From bloody death of stricken day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ocean’s leprous agony,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My weary eyes I drew away,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>To where the rocks the margin mar</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of waters where the shadows are⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And saw the smiling of a star.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Imbedded deep in mossy green,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A glinting gem with lustrous sheen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Burnt wondrous with a flame serene,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>My soul grew drunken with its ray⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like liquid April filing May,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its wing-light suffused the day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And day became⁠—with colors cold</span>
					<br/>
					<span>New-drowned in beauties manifold⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>An opal chalice brimming gold.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>A silent music clove the air⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A spirit bent in worship there⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>My wish had wrought itself a prayer.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“O, if thy beauty, radiant stone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Be not rejected love alone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By wooing skies upon thee thrown;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>But rather a desire intense,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Appealing thus to human sense</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With more than human eloquence;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>If so thou strivest to impart</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The aspirations at thy heart⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Pulsing a wish with every spark;</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Give me to claim thy sacred ray,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll bear the from thy shades away,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And set the in the perfect day.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>I’ll niche thee in a shrine made fair</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With wondrous woods and metals rare,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dim with amber-tinted air.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And sculpted work of quaint device,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Gem-tinct with gleams of prismic ice⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And lamps antique of fabled price⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And droning troops of monkish bees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With censers filled at spicy trees,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Shall minister on bended knees.”</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Grey darkness fell upon the land,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With hasty clutch my eager hand</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To snatch the gem from barren strand</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Essayed. When, Lo! with stiffened hair⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And vision smit with baleful glare⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And hope sharp-freezing to despair,</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With heart compressed as in a vice,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And forehead bound with sudden ice⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I grasped a hidden Cockatrice.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>O, with Heart of Stone with eyes of light,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ivory throat of pallid white,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And snaky folds concealed from sight⁠—</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With jeweled teeth, alas! and breath</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose touch to passion ministreth⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweet-spiced with aromatic death!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>No pen of poison, gall-immersed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of deadly sins can name thy worst;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or fitly curse thy race accursed.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>San Francisco, <time datetime="1867-09-16">Sept. 16th 1867</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="a-mystery" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">A Mystery</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A thing to be thought with abated breath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And named with tears.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There ever shall be as there ever have been,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beyond our ken,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The weight of the Past with its burden of sin,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">A shadow thrown from the Future within,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the souls of men.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the weight unfelt and the shadow unseen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the cry of the Present unheard between,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Is all of life.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And ’tis only through toil and the nameless pain</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of wishes forever unwished again,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">By an aimless strife⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As who should do battle with weapon of steel</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To the fleshless Dark which he cannot feel,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As it hedges him round⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That peace is found.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thinkst thou that “to smile” is the same as “to live,”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That a life shall receive what it need not give,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">That toil is toil;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That a fruitful future unmoistened by tears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Brings harvest of ears,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And wine and oil?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O, Dreamer of Dreams, there forever shall be</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A blossomless growth in the spirit of thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Still draping in gloom.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Each fairy facade of each castle so fair,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>By thy fancy upreared in the roseate air,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As ivy a tomb.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis rooted in life and its fruit is of death,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And the prisoned breath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In its baleful shadow, still shudders and moans</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">In voiceless tones.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wouldst thou know, O mortal, the secret of Pain?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis the payment in blood for each wish we obtain.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>San Francisco, <time datetime="1867-11-18">November 18th, 1867</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="rosalie" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Rosalie</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Lithesome, blithesome daughter mine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lift to me those lips of thine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Greet me with those eyes of blue,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Eyes which seem to look me through:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Flashing now with life and light;</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Now in hush of sleep reposing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Veiled by lashes dark as night⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shadows over violets closing.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Come thou, o’er me softly bow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Shower on me fond caresses;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>O’er my cheek, and on my brow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Fling thy wealth of sunbright tresses.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Every throbbing pulse of mine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Beats in time and tune to thine;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All my heart’s tide sets to thee,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Loving little Rosalie.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>As the dewdrop doth the flower,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As the sunshine doth the hour,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So the music of thy voice</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Makes my soul rejoice.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the livelong day around</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Babbles on thy childlike chatter;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mingled with the pleasant sound</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Comes thy little foot’s light patter.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Like the linnet’s on the thorn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Joyously thy carol floweth⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sing, my bird, for thy young morn</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">No dark night of winter knoweth.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Blue-eyed romp, in ceaseless whirl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Half the angel, half the girl,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All the child art thou to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Laughing little Rosalie.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Loved one mine, the sunny day</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Passeth rapidly away;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All too soon the bright time goes⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All too fast life’s current flows.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now its fairy waters glide</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Where the sunbeams o’er it quiver;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Soon the salt waves meet its tide,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Soon the beck will be the river⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thine is now the primrose spring,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Thine the bluebell in the meadows:</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mine the fading hours that fling</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Autumn leaves and lengthening shadows;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet my day lights up awhile</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Neath the sunshine of thy smile⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thou dost bring new life to me,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lithesome, blithesome Rosalie.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="to-thee-my-darling" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">To Thee, My Darling</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The heliotrope’s fragrant breath⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The subtle sweet of jasmine on the evening air⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The flowery mead, all radiant</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With sympathetic pleasure</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From the glowing kiss with which</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The God of Day salutes its lovely face⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The whispering, snowy surf, wherewith</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Old Ocean in his kindliest mood</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Murmurs soft secrets to the willing sands⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The mingled joy and anguish thrilling us</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In the weird plaints of Schubert⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Great Rossini’s heaven-born strains⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All graceful, lovely things,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lifting my soul to beatific state⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mnemosyne with flowery fetters</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Binds to thee, my darling.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
			<article id="serenade" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Serenade</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Listen, maiden, to my strain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Listen, pray thee, do!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Darkness shrouds the gloomy plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And our moon is on the wane,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Yet this fog cools not my brain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">’Tis on fire anew.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>List! and from thy couch arise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Rise, dear, pray thee do!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Not to gaze on murky skies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That were now nor well nor wise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But because your lover tries</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To catch sight of you!</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Draw that dismal curtain back⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Draw it back, duck, do!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Tis like these clouds, whose flimsy rack</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hides yon bright moon’s silvery track,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’d rather <em>see</em> the window black,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And know it bright to you.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let me see those love-lit eyes⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Let me, sweet; now, do-o-o!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lit by them these misty skies</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ne’er would wish the moon to rise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the stars, like scared fire-flies,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Would hide deep in the blue.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Come, dear, dup that tiresome door⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Dup the door, duck, do-oo-o!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let me love afar no more,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Singing in the fog’s a bore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sooth to say my throat is sore,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Hoarse I’m getting too.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Let me to thy chamber creep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Let me creep up, do-oo-oo!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’ll not again disturb thy sleep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Nor more before thy window weep,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Listen, love, and do not keep</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Me longer in the dew.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Listen, maiden, to my song,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Listen, now come, do-oo-oo-oo!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do not deem my rhyming wrong,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>I’m not of the ribald throng,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Let me in, I merely long</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To read my rhymes to you.</span>
				</p>
				<footer>
					<p>San Francisco, <time datetime="1870-03-16">March 16, 1870</time>.</p>
				</footer>
			</article>
			<article id="science" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Science</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The winds of heaven trample down the pines</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or creep in lazy tides along the lea;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Lead the wild waters from the smitten rock.</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or crawl with childish babble to the sea;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But why the tempests out of heaven blow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or what the purpose of the seaward flow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>No man hath known, and none shall ever know.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Why seek to know? To follow nature up</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Against the current of her course, why care?</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Vain is the toil; he’s wisest still who knows</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">All science is but formulated prayer⁠—</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prayer for the warm winds and the quickening rain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Prayer for sharp sickle and for laboring swain.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To gather from the planted past the grain.</span>
				</p>
			</article>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
